A reverend man that grazed his cattle nigh, Sometime a blusterer that the ruffle knew Of court, of city, and had let go by The swiftest hours observed as they flew, Towards this afflicted fancy fastly drew; And, privileged by age, desires to know In bri The Duke of Lancaster, and Westmerland:Against the Welsh himselfe, and Harrie Monmouth. To say ay and no tothese particulars is more than to answer in a catechism. --Speak thou, boy:Perhaps thy childishness will move him moreThan can our reasons. I am about it, but indeed my invention Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze; It plucks out brains and all. That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out ofthe 'Hundred Merry Tales. Kill, kill, kill, kill, kill him![AUFIDIUS and the CONSPIRATORS draw, and kill CORIOLANUS,whofalls. I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise alodging, and say he lies here or he lies there, were to lie in mineown throat. Nothing but a Colossus can do thee that frendshipSay thy prayers, and farewell Fal. If the cat will after kind, So be sure will Rosalinde. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,Till thou applaud the deed. I saw Mark Antony offer hima crown (yet 'twas not a crown neither, 'twas one of these coronets) and, as I told you, he put it by once. I myself have all the other:And the very ports they blow,All the quarters that they knowI' the shipman's card. Nay, you were better speak first; and when you were gravell'd for lack of matter, you might take occasion tokiss. Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell: For certain she is dead, and by strange manner. The forest Enter JAQUES and LORDS, in the habit of foresters JAQUES. I do beseech youLet me o'erleap that custom; for I cannotPut on the gown, stand naked, and entreat them,For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage: please youThat I may pass this doing. And thou hast talk'dOf Sallies, and Retires; Trenches, Tents,Of Palizadoes, Frontiers, Parapets,Of Basiliskes, of Canon, Culuerin,Of Prisoners ransome, and of Souldiers slaine,And all the current of a headdy fight. Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristow Castle. I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange. 'Tis so: and as war in some sort, may be said to be a ravisher,so it cannot be denied but peace is a great maker of cuckolds. A court within the Castle of the Earl of Gloucester. But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house, Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine How to cut off some charge in legacies. Thus it goes: If it do come to pass That any man turn ass, Leaving his wealth and ease A stubborn will to please, Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame; Here shall he see Gross fools as he, An if he will come to me. Doubly divorc'd! Bad men, you violate A twofold marriage-'twixt my crown and me, And then betwixt me and my married wife. You know the very road into his kindnessAnd cannot lose your way. No, by my soul, she was not; Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me; But always hath been just and virtuous In anything that I do know by her. Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I willget again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker'spen and hang me up at the door of a brothel house for the sign of blind Cupid. Now to you: If on my credit you dare build so far To make your speed to Dover, you shall find Some that will thank you, making just report Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow The King hath cause to plain. Old Time the clock-setter, that bald sexton Time, Is it as he will? Well then, France shall rue. And must we be divided? Must we part? KING RICHARD. A servant that he bred, thrill'd with remorse, Oppos'd against the act, bending his sword To his great master; who, thereat enrag'd, Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead; But not without that harmful stroke which since Hath pluck'd him after. He'll go along o'er the wide world with me; Leave me alone to woo him. O hateful error, melancholy's child, Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men The things that are not? O error, soon conceived, Thou never comest unto a happy birth, But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee! TITINIUS. Old John of Gaunt, time-honoured Lancaster, Hast thou, according to thy oath and band, Brought hither Henry Hereford, thy bold son, Here to make good the boist'rous late appeal, Which then our leisure would not let us hear, Against the Duke of Norfolk,  Besides, our nearness to the King in love Is near the hate of those love not the King. Well said, old mole! canst work i?the earth so fast? A worthy pioner!?nce more remove, good friends. His industryis vp-staires and down-staires, his eloquence the parcellof a reckoning. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep, leaves him. Now, this extremity Hath brought me to thy hearth: not out of hope,Mistake me not, to save my life; for ifI had fear'd death, of all the men i' the worldI would have 'voided thee; but in mere spite,To be full quit of those my banishers,Stand I before th Good even, good Master What-ye-call't; how do you,sir? You are very well met. Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave, Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones. But Harry liues, that shall conuert those TearesBy number, into houres of Happinesse Iohn, &c. Let's hence and hearHow the dispatch is made; and in what fashion,More than in singularity, he goesUpon this present action. 'Many there were that did his picture get, To serve their eyes, and in it put their mind; Like fools that in th' imagination set The goodly objects which abroad they find Of lands and mansions, theirs in thought assigned; And labouring in moe pleasures  Of all the horses,--Whereof we have ta'en good, and good store,--of allThe treasure in this field achiev'd and city,We render you the tenth; to be ta'en forthBefore the common distribution atYour only choice. Never did captive with a freer heart Cast off his chains of bondage, and embrace His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement, More than my dancing soul doth celebrate This feast of battle with mine adversary. 'Tis but one cast away,and so, come death! Two o'clock is your hour? ORLANDO. Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?LENNOX. At every house I'll call; I may command at most. Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashionis? how giddily 'a turns about all the hot-bloods betweenfourteen and five-and-thirty? sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers in the reechy painting, sometime like god Bel'spriests in t I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honor. I am nohonest man if there be any good meaning toward you. It is my only suit, Provided that you weed your better judgments Of all opinion that grows rank in them That I am wise. Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion Is much upon my fashion. But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic;And manhood is call'd foolery when it stands Against a falling fabric. The one, to save the money that he spends in tiring; the other, that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge. Thus play I in one person many people, And none contented. Do'st thou so hunger for my emptie Chayre,That thou wilt needes inuest thee with mine Honors,Before thy howre be ripe? O foolish Youth!Thou seek'st the Greatnesse, that will ouer-whelme thee. Therefore, beseech you,--You that will be less fearful than discreet;That love the fundamental part of stateMore than you doubt the change on't; that preferA noble life before a long, and wishTo jump a body with a dangerous physicThat's sure of death wi By mytroth, we that have good wits have much to answer for: we shall be flouting; we cannot hold. Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester; Bid her send me presently a thousand pound. --Now, Mars, I pr'ythee, make us quick in work,That we with smoking swords may march from henceTo help our fielded friends!--Come, blow thy blast. Do'st thou heare Hal, neuer call a true peece ofGold a Counterfeit: thou art essentially made, withoutseeming so Prince. Therefore be gone Without our grace, our love, our benison. The messengers from our sister and the King Corn. But I pray, sir, why am I beaten?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as day doesnight; it's spritely, waking, audible, and full of vent. This hand of yours requires A sequester from liberty, fasting, and prayer, Much castigation, exercise devout, For here's a young and sweating devil here That commonly rebels. Enter Desdemona, Iago, and Attendants. Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains Some scar of it; lean upon a rush, The cicatrice and capable impressure Thy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes, Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not; Nor, I am sure, there is not force in eyes  No; It is thyself, mine own self's better part; Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart, My food, my fortune, and my sweet hope's aim, My sole earth's heaven, and my heaven's claim. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home, And not send back my messenger. Would it not grieve a woman to be overmaster'd with a piece ofvaliant dust? to make an account of her life to a clod of waywardmarl? No, uncle, I'll none. Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves That they are not the first of fortune's slaves, Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars Who, sitting in the stocks, refuge their shame, That many have and others must sit there; And in this thought t Was? Hamlet wrong? Laertes? Never Hamlet: If Hamlet from himself be ta?n away, And when he? not himself does wrong Laertes, Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it. You must speake lowder, my Master is deafe Iust. I pray you, sir, receive the money now, For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more. Exeunt [severally]. Good guard Until their greater pleasures first be known That are to censure them. By this hand, Claudio shall renderme a dear account. I did consent, And often did beguile her of her tears When I did speak of some distressful stroke That my youth suffer'd. O God, sir, here's a dish I love not! I cannot endure myLady Tongue. Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,Or from our masters?MACBETH. Put out the light, and then put out the light. O, what a noble mind is here o?rthrown! The courtier?, scholar?, soldier?, eye, tongue, sword, The expectancy and rose of the fair state, The glass of fashion and the mould of form, The observ? of all observers,?uite, quite down! And I, of ladies most d Enter the BASTARD BASTARD. Swart, like my shoe; but her face nothing like so clean kept; for why, she sweats, a man may go over shoes in the grime of it. What England says, say briefly, gentle lord; We coldly pause for thee. O treacherous villains! [To Lodovico and Gratiano. Hath no man's dagger here a point for me? [Hero swoons. Why do you bend such solemn brows on me? Think you I bear the shears of destiny? Have I commandment on the pulse of life? SALISBURY. And Falstaffe, you caried your Guts away as nimbly, withas quicke dexteritie, and roared for mercy, and still ranneand roar'd, as euer I heard Bull-Calfe. Nay, you might keep that check forit, till you met your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed. Yet for your part, it not appeares to me,Either from the King, or in the present Time,That you should haue an ynch of any groundTo build a Griefe on: were you not restor'dTo all the Duke of Norfolkes Seignories,Your Noble, and right well-remembred FatherFor know, Iago, But that I love the gentle Desdemona, I would not my unhoused free condition Put into circumscription and confine For the sea's worth. A dear happiness to women! They would else have beentroubled with a pernicious suitor. Faith, that was not so well; yet would I knew That stroke would prove the worst! LODOVICO. This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart; Hot, hot, and moist. Where is that slaveWhich told me they had beat you to your trenches?Where's he? call him hither. But had he died in the business, madam? how then?VOLUMNIA. Had you not been their father, these white flakes Had challeng'd pity of them. Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool? Go you and call my fool hither. It is not very strange; for my uncle is king of Denmark, and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little. Here do make his friendsBlush that the world goes well; who rather had,Though they themselves did suffer by't, beholdDissentious numbers pestering streets than seeOur tradesmen singing in their shops, and goingAbout their functions friendly. No? What needed then that terrible dispatch of it intoyour pocket? The quality of nothing hath not such need to hide itself. But though they jump not on a just account As in these cases, where the aim reports, 'Tis oft with differenceyet do they all confirm A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus. Heralds, from off our tow'rs we might behold From first to last the onset and retire Of both your armies, whose equality By our best eyes cannot be censured. A devil in an everlasting garment hath him; One whose hard heart is button'd up with steel; A fiend, a fairy, pitiless and rough; A wolf, nay worse, a fellow all in buff; A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that countermands The passages of alleys, c Titinius, if thou lovest me, Mount thou my horse and hide thy spurs in him, Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops And here again, that I may rest assured Whether yond troops are friend or enemy. Enter the conspirators, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Cinna, Metellus Cimber, and Trebonius. If my offense be of such mortal kind That nor my service past nor present sorrows Nor purposed merit in futurity Can ransom me into his love again, But to know so must be my benefit; So shall I clothe me in a forced content And shut myself up in some ot [Within] If thy name be called Luce -Luce, thou hast answer'd him well. I know his eye doth homage otherwhere; Or else what lets it but he would be here? Sister, you know he promis'd me a chain; Would that alone a love he would detain, So he would keep fair quarter with his bed! I see the jewel best enamelled Will lose his  But, brother, I can tell youstrange news that you yet dreamt not of. If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations; he hathfaults, with surplus, to tire in repetition. I'll return consul;Or never trust to what my tongue can doI' the way of flattery further. I shall lack voice: the deeds of CoriolanusShould not be utter'd feebly. Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar, Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat An humble heart. I am glad of your departure; adieu, good Monsieur Melancholy. O, these flaws, and starts,--Impostors to true fear,--would well becomeA woman's story at a winter's fire,Authoriz'd by her grandam. And for mine too; when law can do no right, Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong; Law cannot give my child his kingdom here, For he that holds his kingdom holds the law; Therefore, since law itself is perfect wrong, How can the law forbid my tongue to I dare say my Cousin Williamis become a good Scholler? hee is at Oxford still, is heenot? Sil. And what have I to give you back whose worth May counterpoise this rich and precious gift? Pedro. In debating which was best, we shall part withneither. 'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death. If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad. As if Time were in debt! How fondly dost thou reason!DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood! Over thy wounds now do I prophesy (Which like dumb mouths do ope their ruby lips To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue) A curse shall light upon the limbs of men; Domestic fury and fierce civil strife S Upon this hint I spake: She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd, And I loved her that she did pity them. Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Leonato. To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie. Each day still better other's happiness Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap, Add an immortal title to your crown! KING RICHARD. 'Tis not the trial of a woman's war, The bitter clamour of two eager tongues, Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain; The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this. Now counterfeit to swoon; why, now fall down; Or, if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame, Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers. Enter ENGLISH HERALD, with trumpet ENGLISH HERALD. For all the Countrey, in a generall voyce,Cry'd hate vpon him: and all their prayers, and loue,Were set on Herford, whom they doted on,And bless'd, and grac'd, and did more then the King. I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and sogood a continuer. It seems you know not, then, so much as we: The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest, Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin, And brings from him such offers of our peace As we with honour and respect may take, With purpose presently to leave this  Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst![Exeunt. She had a song of "willow"; An old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune, And she died singing it. Dear my lord, Make me acquainted with your cause of grief. --Pray you let us go:Let them accuse me by invention, IWill answer in mine honour. Keep this man safe, Give him all kindness; I had rather have Such men my friends than enemies. No, heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul. No, thou arrant knaue: I would I might dy,that I might haue thee hang'd: Thou hast drawne myshoulder out of ioynt Off. Sure I shall never marry like my sisters, To love my father all. O, how that name befits my composition! Old Gaunt, indeed; and gaunt in being old. Sir, a word with you: I haue three pound, tofree Mouldie and Bull-calfe Falst. '"Among the many that mine eyes have seen, Not one whose flame my heart so much as warmed, Or my affection put to th' smallest teen, Or any of my leisures ever charmed. White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices, Strive to speak big, and clap their female joints In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown; Thy very beadsmen learn to bend their bows Of double-fatal And how accompanyed? Canst thou tellthat? Clar. O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else? And shall I couple hell? O, fie!?old, my heart; And you, my sinews, grow not instant old, But bear me stiffly up. Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modestworking. She is a virtuous and a reverend lady; It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong. The second propertie ofyour excellent Sherris, is, the warming of the Blood:which before (cold, and setled) left the Liuer white, andpale; which is the Badge of Pusillanimitie, and Cowardize:but the Sherris warmes it, and makes it coursefrom the inwards Only this commendation I can afford her, that were she other than she is, she were unhandsome, and being no other but asshe is, I do not like her. For you know, nuncle, The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long That it had it head bit off by it young. " 'This said, his wat'ry eyes he did dismount, Whose sights till then were levelled on my face; Each cheek a river running from a fount With brinish current downward flowed apace. What, what, what!I shall be lov'd when I am lack'd. This guest of summer,The temple-haunting martlet, does approveBy his lov'd mansionry, that the heaven's breathSmells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze, buttress,Nor coigne of vantage, but this bird hath madeHis pendant bed and procreant cradle:Where they mCanst thou blame him? Storm still. Bid the Ostler bring the Gelding out of the stable. Marry, I would not do such a thing for a joint-ring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, norany petty exhibition; but, for the whole worldwhy, who wouldnot make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch? I should venture pur Farewell Master Silence, I will not vse many wordes withyou: fare you well, Gentlemen both: I thanke you:I must a dozen mile to night. And when such time they have begun to cry,Let them not cease, but with a din confus'dEnforce the present executionOf what we chance to sentence. Exeunt, leading offMELUNSCENE 5. Now, as I am a Christian, answer me In what safe place you have bestow'd my money, Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours, That stands on tricks when I am undispos'd. Exeunt Othello andDesdemona. Enter the two KINGS, with their powers, at several doors KING JOHN. Enter PEMBROKE PEMBROKE. I? sorry they offend you, heartily; Yes, faith, heartily. Then 'tis like, if there come a hot Sunne, and thisciuill buffetting hold, wee shall buy Maiden-heads asthey buy Hob-nayles, by the Hundreds Falst. Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deedsDo breed unnatural troubles: infected mindsTo their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets. You'll cry for this, minion, if beat thedoor down. On such a full sea are we now afloat, And we must take the current when it serves, Or lose our ventures. Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body? IAGO. Gives him aletter. To vouch this is no proof, Without more certain and more overt test Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods Of modern seeming do prefer against him. An thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question, thou'dst well deserv'd it. Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay The first departing of the King for Ireland. Can you tell if Rosalind, the Duke's daughter, bebanished with her father? CHARLES. I had a thing to say But I will fit it with some better time. Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead! Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets. For, if I hang,old Sir Iohn hangs with mee, and thou know'st hee's noStarueling. Pr'ythee, peace!I dare do all that may become a man;Who dares do more is none. The weight of this sad time we must obey, Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say. Ely HouseEnter JOHN OF GAUNT, sick, with the DUKE OF YORK, etc. Poore fellow neuer ioy'd since the price of oatsrose, it was the death of him 2. Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands; Swear by the duty that you owe to God, Our part therein we banish with yourselves, To keep the oath that we administer: You never shall, so help you truth and God, Embrace each other's love in banishment; Nor  Exeunt all but Antony. So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee, With urging helpless patience would relieve me; But if thou live to see like right bereft, This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left. Do not doubt, Cassio, But I will have my lord and you again As friendly as you were. Nay, but fellow, fellow,--[Enter CORIOLANUS with AUFIDIUS. Can you remember any of the principal evils that helaid to the charge of women? ROSALIND. Who, he?He was some hielding Fellow, that had stolneThe Horse he rode-on: and vpon my lifeSpeake at aduenture. Oh Harry, thou hast rob'd me of my youth:I better brooke the losse of brittle life,Then those proud Titles thou hast wonne of me,They wound my thoghts worse, then the sword my flesh:But thought's the slaue of Life, and Life, Times foole;And Time, that t For this slave, If there be any cunning cruelty That can torment him much and hold him long, It shall be his. Then it will be the earliest fruit i' th' country;for you'll be rotten ere you be half ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar. That we have been familiar,Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison, ratherThan pity note how much. This but doneEven as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours:For they have pardons, being ask'd, as freeAs words to little purpose. I shall devise something; but, I pray you, commend my counterfeiting to him. No, his mouth is stopp'd; Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't. I pawn'd thee none:I promis'd you redresse of these same GrieuancesWhereof you did complaine; which, by mine Honor,I will performe, with a most Christian care. Come Kate, thou art perfect in lying downe:Come, quicke, quicke, that I may lay my Head in thyLappe Lady. 'His qualities were beauteous as his form, For maiden-tongued he was, and thereof free; Yet if men moved him, was he such a storm As oft 'twixt May and April is to see, When winds breathe sweet, unruly though they be. I have another weapon in this chamber; It is a sword of Spain, the ice-brook's temper O, here it is. Good Captaine Peesel be quiet, it is very late:I beseeke you now, aggrauate your Choler Pist. Enter, with Lictors before them, COMINIUS the Consul,MENENIUS, CORIOLANUS, Senators, SICINIUS and BRUTUS. Let them goe: Ile through Gloucestershire,and there will I visit Master Robert Shallow, Esquire: Ihaue him alreadie tempering betweene my finger and mythombe, and shortly will I seale with him. Sir, how comes't that youHave holp to make this rescue?MENENIUS. Whence is that knocking?How is't with me, when every noise appals me?What hands are here? Ha, they pluck out mine eyes!Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this bloodClean from my hand? No; this my hand will ratherThe multitudinous seas incarnadine,MakingAnd what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,The Arch-bishops Grace of Yorke, Dowglas, Mortimer,Capitulate against vs, and are vp. If not a present remedy, at least a patient sufferance. But you are no such man;you are rather point-device in your accoutrements, as lovingyourself than seeming the lover of any other. Who strooke this heate vp after I was gone? Hot. Ourself, and Bushy, Bagot here, and Green, Observ'd his courtship to the common people; How he did seem to dive into their hearts With humble and familiar courtesy; What reverence he did throw away on slaves, Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smil Caius Marcius wasA worthy officer i' the war; but insolent,O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,Self-loving,--SICINIUS. He that beguil'd you in aplain accent was a plain knave, which, for my part, I will not be, though I should win your displeasure to entreat me to't. Enter Borachio and Conrade. She told her, while she kept it, 'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father Entirely to her love, but if she lost it Or made a gift of it, my father's eye Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt After new fancies. I would he had! 'Twas you incens'd the rabble;--Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worthAs I can of those mysteries which heavenWill not have earth to know. Though I could wishYou were conducted to a gentle bath,And balms applied to you, yet dare I neverDeny your asking: take your choice of thoseThat best can aid your action. There's comfort yet; they are assailable;Then be thou jocund: ere the bat hath flownHis cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons,The shard-borne beetle, with his drowsy hums,Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be doneA deed of dreadful noI am not yet of Percies mind, the Hotspurreof the North, he that killes me some sixe or seauendozen of Scots at a Breakfast, washes his hands, and saiesto his wife; Fie vpon this quiet life, I want worke. Yet once again proclaim it publicly, If any friend will pay the sum for him, He shall not die; so much we tender him. I pretheecall in Falstaffe, Ile play Percy, and that damn'd Brawneshall play Dame Mortimer his wife. He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath. Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here he would use me withestimation. I am Robert Shallow (Sir) a poore Esquire of thisCountie, and one of the Kings Iustices of the Peace:What is your good pleasure with me? Bard. Confusion now hath made his masterpiece!Most sacrilegious murder hath broke opeThe Lord's anointed temple, and stole thenceThe life o' the building. --Advance, brave Titus:They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,Which makes me sweat with wrath. Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed? OTHELLO. Not to be tempted, would she be immured, And now to tempt all liberty procured. Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems, Your special mandate for the state affairs Hath hither brought. Yes, that I will; and wherefore will I do it? I tore them from their bonds, and cried aloud 'O that these hands could so redeem my son, As they have given these hairs their liberty!' But now I envy at their liberty, And will again commit them to their b Here do I throw down this, If he may be repeal'd to try his honour. The queen his mother Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,?My virtue or my plague, be it either which,?She? so conjunctive to my life and soul, That, as the star moves not but in his sphere, I could not but by her. Will you be patient? Will you stay awhile? I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it. You holy clergymen, is there no plot To rid the realm of this pernicious blot? ABBOT. Rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a poor house; as yourpearl in your foul oyster. Look you pale, mistress? Do you perceive the gastness of her eye? Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon. But my Lads, my Lads, to morrow morning, byfoure a clocke early at Gads hill, there are Pilgrimes goingto Canterbury with rich Offerings, and Traders ridingto London with fat Purses. Enter King Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox,with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Soldier. But we must win your Grace to go with us To Bristow Castle, which they say is held By Bushy, Bagot, and their complices, The caterpillars of the commonwealth, Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away. Good uncle, let this end where it begun; We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son. But to the girdle do the gods inherit, Beneath is all the fiend's. By this hand, if I were nowby this Rascall, I could braine him with his Ladies Fan. Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on thatWhich might appal the devil. Yea, and so vs'd it, that were it heere apparant,that thou art Heire apparant. This union shall do more than battery can To our fast-closed gates; for at this match With swifter spleen than powder can enforce, The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope And give you entrance; but without this match, The sea enraged is not half so 'Tis very true: my grief lies all within; And these external manner of laments Are merely shadows to the unseen grief That swells with silence in the tortur'd soul. Speak briefly, then;For we are peremptory to dispatchThis viperous traitor: to eject him henceWere but one danger; and to keep him hereOur certain death: therefore it is decreedHe dies to-night. When thou ran'st vp Gads-Hill in the Night, tocatch my Horse, if I did not thinke that thou hadst beenean Ignis fatuus, or a Ball of Wild-fire, there's no Purchasein Money. They allrunaway, leauing the booty behind them. She never reprehended him but mildly, When he demean'd himself rough, rude, and wildly. And as I truly fight, defend me heaven! MARSHAL. Here is better than the open air; take it thankfully. What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me??Help, help, ho! Pol. Upon a lie seven times removedbear your body more seeming, Audreyas thus, sir. Pray God we may make haste, and come too late! ALL. My Lord, you told me you would tell the rest, When weeping made you break the story off, Of our two cousins' coming into London. But wherefore doe I tell these Newes to thee?Why, Harry, doe I tell thee of my Foes,Which art my neer'st and dearest Enemie?Thou, that art like enough, through vassall Feare,Base Inclination, and the start of Spleene,To fight against me vnder Percies payAnd that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not marry her. A little water clears us of this deed:How easy is it then! Your constancyHath left you unattended. Have you the heart? When your head did but ache, I knit my handkerchief about your brows The best I had, a princess wrought it me And I did never ask it you again; And with my hand at midnight held your head; And, like the watchful minutes to the hour,  Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly; forthough she's as like this as a crab's like an apple, yet I can tell what I can tell. There was it;--For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him. --Hark!--I laid their daggers ready;He could not miss 'em. Has he, masters? I fear there will a worse come in his place. My young remembrance cannot parallelA fellow to it. But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladieshave lost? LE BEAU. O Cassius! Far from this country Pindarus shall run, Where never Roman shall take note of him. Let me see, about Michaelmas next I shalbe Poin. Your noble Tullus Aufidius will appear well inthese wars, his great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in norequest of his country. Then is there mirth in heaven, When earthly things made even Atone together. ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BEDISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERSPERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USEDCOMMERCIALLY. Here is the guess of their true strength and forces By diligent discovery; but your haste Is now urg'd on you. Where is he wounded?--[To theTRIBUNES, who come forward. I sin in envying his nobility;And were I anything but what I am,I would wish me only he. When I strike my foot Upon the bosom of the ground, rush forth And bind the boy which you shall find with me Fast to the chair. It was (my Lord) who lin'd himself with hope,Eating the ayre, on promise of Supply,Flatt'ring himselfe with Proiect of a power,Much smaller, then the smallest of his Thoughts,And so with great imagination(Proper to mad men) led his Powers to death,And ( I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest, Lay down my soul at stake. I told him gently of our greeuances,Of his Oath-breaking: which he mended thus,By now forswearing that he is forsworne,He cals vs Rebels, Traitors, and will scourgeWith haughty armes, this hatefull name in vs. Re-enter Titinius, with Messala. This is strange now: do you two know how you are censured here inthe city, I mean of us o' the right-hand file? Do you?BOTH TRIBUNES. The sway, Revenue, execution of the rest, Beloved sons, be yours; which to confirm, This coronet part betwixt you. If thou that bid'st me be content wert grim, Ugly, and sland'rous to thy mother's womb, Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains, Lame, foolish, crooked, swart, prodigious, Patch'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks, I would not care, I then w Enter Gloucester, with France and Burgundy;Attendants. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more willingly part withal,?xcept my life, except my life, except my life. The best thing in him Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue Did make offence, his eye did heal it up. Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here, And that is false thou dost report to us. I shall not dine at home; I meet the captains at the citadel. The abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power, and, to speak truth of Caesar, I have not known when his affections sway'd More than his reason. Mistress and master, you have oft enquired After the shepherd that complain'd of love, Who you saw sitting by me on the turf, Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess That was his mistress. O, who shall beleeue,But you mis-vse the reuerence of your Place,Employ the Countenance, and Grace of Heauen,As a false Fauorite doth his Princes Name,In deedes dis-honorable? You haue taken vp,Vnder the counterfeited Zeale of Heauen,The Subiects of Hea Hold, ho! LieutenantsirMontanogentlemen Have you forgot all place of sense and duty? Hold! the general speaks to you! Hold, hold, for shame! OTHELLO. Husband, I'll dine above with you to-day, And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks. But doth he know that I am in this forest, and inman's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled? CELIA. When we consider The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk, And let ourselves again but understand That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes, So may he with more facile question bear it, For that it stands not in such warlike brace, But altogether lacks  He hath commission from thy wife and me To hang Cordelia in the prison and To lay the blame upon her own despair That she fordid herself. Here's a good world! Knew you of this fair work? Beyond the infinite and boundless reach Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death, Art thou damn'd, Hubert. I see a strange Confession in thine Eye:Thou shak'st thy head, and hold'st it Feare, or Sinne,To speake a truth. Is this a holiday? What, know you not, Being mechanical, you ought not walk Upon a laboring day without the sign Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou? FIRST COMMONER. Is this the noble Moor whom our full Senate Call all in all sufficient? This the nature Whom passion could not shake? whose solid virtue The shot of accident nor dart of chance Could neither graze nor pierce? IAGO. But now I know thy mind: thou dost suspect That I have been disloyal to thy bed And that he is a bastard, not thy son. Let them go on;This mutiny were better put in hazardThan stay, past doubt, for greater:If, as his nature is, he fall in rageWith their refusal, both observe and answerThe vantage of his anger. I know not what you mean by that, but I am sure Caesarfell down. Come, come, you are a fool, And turn'd into the extremity of love. So I do; but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right. Marry, and did, sir; namely, no time torecover hair lost by nature. For this last,Before and in Corioli, let me say,I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers;And by his rare example made the cowardTurn terror into sport: as weeds beforeA vessel under sail, so men obey'd,And fell below his stem: his sword,--death's  "He was a wight of high renown, And thou art but of low degree. Out of my sight, and never see me more! My nobles leave me; and my state is braved, Even at my gates, with ranks of foreign pow'rs; Nay, in the body of the fleshly land, This kingdom, this confine of blood and breath, Hostility and civil tumult reigns B They say Edgar, his banish'd son, is with the Earl ofKent in Germany. [Drum afar off] Hark, our drumsAre bringing forth our youth! we'll break our wallsRather than they shall pound us up: our gates,Which yet seem shut, we have but pinn'd with rushes;They'll open of themselves. He is compos'd and fram'd of treachery, And fled he is upon this villany. Enter, with Drum and Colours, Edmund, Regan, Gentleman, andSoldiers. O my gentle Hubert, We owe thee much! Within this wall of flesh There is a soul counts thee her creditor, And with advantage means to pay thy love; And, my good friend, thy voluntary oath Lives in this bosom, dearly cherished. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!?o, gentlemen, With all my love I do commend me to you: And what so poor a man as Hamlet is May do, to express his love and friending to you, God willing, shall not lack. Nay, I thinke rather, you are more beholdingto the Night, then to the Fernseed, for your walking inuisible Gad. Exeunt [Lear and Cordelia, guarded]. Exit HUBERT withPETER O my gentle cousin, Hear'st thou the news abroad, who are arriv'd? BASTARD. Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee To make the base earth proud with kissing it. Arm you against your other enemies, I'll make a peace between your soul and you. Stand from him Fellow; wherefore hang'st vpon him? Host. Case ye, case ye; on with your Vizards, there'smony of the Kings comming downe the hill, 'tis goingto the Kings Exchequer Fal. Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hang'd Prin. What Ostler, come away, and be hangd: comeaway 2. --By the elements,If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,He's mine or I am his: mine emulationHath not that honour in't it had; for whereI thought to crush him in an equal force,--True sword to sword,--I'll potch at him some way,Or wrath or craft may geI did suppose it should be on constraint; But, heaven be thank'd, it is but voluntary. My Lord, these Griefes shall be with speed redrest:Vpon my Life, they shall. ) I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviours tolove, will, after he hath laugh'd at such shallow follies inothers, become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love; andsuch a man is ClaudiI warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, hehath ta'en his bow and arrows, and is gone forthto sleep. I am glad on't: then we shall ha' means to ventOur musty superfluity. The grappling vigour and rough frown of war Is cold in amity and painted peace, And our oppression hath made up this league. This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious, Which so appearing to the common eyes, We shall be call'd purgers, not murderers. Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in practice. Sweet mistress-what your name is else, Iknow not, Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our earth's wonder-more than earth, divine. Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby, Bloody with spurring, fiery-red with haste. You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor. The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:Now spurs the lated traveller apace,To gain the timely inn; and near approachesThe subject of our watch. With courtesy and with respect enough, But not with such familiar instances, Nor with such free and friendly conference, As he hath used of old. I would I were a Weauer, I could sing all manner ofsongs. Shall she come in? were't good? I think she stirs again. Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? Where is Bagot? What is become of Bushy? Where is Green? That they have let the dangerous enemy Measure our confines with such peaceful steps? If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it. If you think other, Remove your thought; it doth abuse your bosom. Believe then, if you please, that I can do strange things. My duty cannot suffer T' obey in all your daughters' hard commands. It was an answer: how apply you this?MENENIUS. Then they fled Into this abbey, whither we pursu'd them; And here the Abbess shuts the gates on us, And will not suffer us to fetch him out, Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence. Seuen? why there were but foure, euen now Falst. He was perfumed like a Milliner,And 'twixt his Finger and his Thumbe, he heldA Pouncet-box: which euer and anonHe gaue his Nose, and took't away againe:Who therewith angry, when it next came there,Tooke it in Snuffe. Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark: for we'llHear nought from Rome in private. Alack,You are transported by calamityThither where more attends you; and you slanderThe helms o' th' state, who care for you like fathers,When you curse them as enemies. O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt, Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!?By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight, Till our scale turn the beam. A cry within, "A sail, a sail!" Gunsheard. As I guess, Marcius,Their bands in the vaward are the Antiates,Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,Their very heart of hope. But (by your leaue) it neuer yet did hurt,To lay downe likely-hoods, and formes of hope L. Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this: Brutus had rather be a villager Than to repute himself a son of Rome Under these hard conditions as this time Is like to lay upon us. That nature which contemns it origin Cannot be bordered certain in itself. Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds Do sorely ruffle. Countrymen, My heart doth joy that yet in all my life I found no man but he was true to me. A double blessing is a double grace; Occasion smiles upon a second leave. All these bold Feares,Thou seest (with perill) I haue answered:For all my Reigne, hath beene but as a SceneActing that argument. He did receive his letters, and is coming, And bid me say to you by word of mouth O Caesar! Sees the body. The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself, And with uplifted arms is safe arriv'd At Ravenspurgh. A good Sherris-Sack hath a two-foldoperation in it: it ascends me into the Braine, dryesme there all the foolish, and dull, and cruddie Vapours,which enuiron it: makes it apprehensiue, quicke, forgetiue,full of nimble, fierie, and delectable shapes; whi Ay, sir; that soaks up the King? countenance, his rewards, his authorities. Doe I? yea, in very truth doe I, if it were an AspenLeafe: I cannot abide Swaggerers. Keep your fellows' counselsand your own, and good night. Her boat hath a leak, And she must not speak Why she dares not come over to thee. Neither to you nor any one; having no witness to confirm myspeech. I think he is; but a greater soldier than he you wot on. But, soft, who wafts us yonder?Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANAADRIANA. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,?s ?were? cannot tell how. Are my discourses dull? Barren my wit? If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd, Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard. The Earle of Hereford was reputed thenIn England the most valiant Gentleman. Then crushing penury Persuades me I was better when a king; Then am I king'd again; and by and by Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke, And straight am nothing. He says, for Brutus' sake, He finds himself beholding to us all. I told him of the army that was landed: He smil'd at it. --The honoured godsKeep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justiceSupplied with worthy men! plant love among's!Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,And not our streets with war!FIRST SENATOR. I feare my BrotherMortimer doth stirre about his Title, and hath sentfor you to line his enterprize. The barbarous Scythian, Or he that makes his generation messes To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and reliev'd, As thou my sometime daughter. Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed; I live dis-stain'd, thou undishonoured. I like not such grinninghonour as Sir Walter hath: Giue mee life, which if I cansaue, so: if not, honour comes vnlook'd for, and ther's anend. Comes Caesar to the Capitol tomorrow? CASCA. Deny to speak with me? They are sick? they are weary? They have travell'd all the night? Mere fetches The images of revolt and flying off! Fetch me a better answer. We'll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors. Now, pray, sir, get you gone:You have done a brave deed. You say true:Why what a caudie deale of curtesie,This fawning Grey-hound then did proffer me,Looke when his infant Fortune came to age,And gentle Harry Percy, and kinde Cousin:O, the Diuell take such Couzeners, God forgiue me,Good Vncle tell your tale,  Our Army is dispers'd:Like youthfull Steeres, vnyoak'd, they tooke their courseEast, West, North, South: or like a Schoole, broke vp,Each hurryes towards his home, and sporting place West. '"All my offences that abroad you see Are errors of the blood, none of the mind; Love made them not; with acture they may be, Where neither party is nor true nor kind. Well: Peace be with him, that hath made vs heauy Ch. Fathers that wear rags Do make their children blind; But fathers that bear bags Shall see their children kind. Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen,"When they did say, "God bless us. '"Lo, all these trophies of affections hot, Of pensived and subdued desires the tender, Nature hath charged me that I hoard them not, But yield them up where I myself must render That is, to you, my origin and ender; For these, of force, must your oblat No, when light-wing'd toys Of feather'd Cupid seel with wanton dullness My speculative and officed instruments, That my disports corrupt and taint my business, Let housewives make a skillet of my helm, And all indign and base adversities Make head again Must he lose The name of king? A God's name, let it go. And did you leave him in this contemplation? SECOND LORD. Very true, Sir: and I come to draw you outby the Eares Host. I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king and queen moult no feather. 'Tis well' that thou hast cause; But thou shouldst please me better wouldst thou weep. I have done no more toCaesar than you shall do to Brutus. No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there was astar danc'd, and under that was I born. I might as yet have been a spreading flower, Fresh to myself, if I had self-applied Love to myself, and to no love beside. Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, fromwhence you have studied your questions. So well that what you bid me undertake, Though that my death were adjunct to my act, By heaven, I would do it. Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, and others, with the prisoners Uncle, you say the Queen is at your house; For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated. I will not leave him now till Cassio Be call'd to him. I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate theeWorse than a promise-breaker. As dissolute as desperate; yet through both I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years May happily bring forth. [Enter CORIOLANUS, with drum and colours; a crowd of Citizenswith him. A noble ship of Venice Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance On most part of their fleet. You are straight enough in theshoulders, you care not who sees your backe: Call youthat backing of your friends? a plague vpon such backing:giue me them that will face me. You say he din'd at home: the goldsmith here Denies that saying. Caesar, thou art revenged, Even with the sword that kill'd thee. Is this the promise that you made your mother? COMINIUS. Doe not thinke so, you shall not finde it so:And Heauen forgiue them, that so much haue sway'dYour Maiesties good thoughts away from me:I will redeeme all this on Percies head,And in the closing of some glorious day,Be bold to tell you, that I am your S Marry, sir, for this something that you gave me for nothing. Do you know me, sir? Am I Dromio? Am I your man? Am I myself?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us? Dog. Hero and Margaret have by this playedtheir parts with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one another when they meet. Who is it thou dost call usurper, France? CONSTANCE. And welcome more common; for that'snothing but words. So we'll live, And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out And take upon 's the mystery of things, As if we we I sent your GraceThe parcels, and particulars of our Griefe,The which hath been with scorne shou'd from the Court:Whereon this Hydra-Sonne of Warre is borne,Whose dangerous eyes may well be charm'd asleepe,With graunt of our most iust and right desires; The affair cries haste, And speed must answer't: you must hence tonight. I am invited, sir, to certain merchants, Of whom I hope to make much benefit; I crave your pardon. Come, go we to the king: This must be known; which, being kept close, might move More grief to hide than hate to utter love. Now, the next day Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent Thou know?t already. Madam, an if my brother had my shape And I had his, Sir Robert's his, like him; And if my legs were two such riding-rods, My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose Lest men should say 'Look where three-far Let go thy hold when agreat wheel runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck withfollowing it; but the great one that goes upward, let him draw theeafter. What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue? I cannot speak to her, yet she urg'd conference. News, friends: our wars are done, the Turks are drown'd. A public place[Enter MENENIUS, COMINIUS, SICINIUS and BRUTUS, and others. 'Tis she is subcontracted to this lord, And I, her husband, contradict your banes. Out, dunghill! They fight. Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy? Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord, That sets the word itself against the word! Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land; The chopping French we do not understand. Nay, pray thee come; Or if thou wilt hold longer argument, Do it in notes. Wel, you must now speake Sir Iohn Falstaffe faire,Which swimmes against your streame of Quality Ch. If hee swagger, let him not come here: I mustliue amongst my Neighbors, Ile no Swaggerers: I amin good name, and fame, with the very best: shut thedoore, there comes no Swaggerers heere: I haue notliu'd all this while, to haue swaggering now: shut thedo On my knees I beg That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food. Besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me,the something that nature gave me his countenance seems to takefrom me. Bell, book, and candle, shall not drive me back, When gold and silver becks me to come on. Bring me but to the very brim of it, And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear With something rich about me. Poor bird! thou'dst never fear the net nor lime,The pit-fall nor the gin. He bears the sentence well, that nothing bears But the free comfort which from thence he hears; But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow That, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow. Alack! I am afraid they have awak'd,And 'tis not done: the attempt, and not the deed,Confounds us. O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender abody, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory. O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heartCannot conceive nor name thee!MACBETH, LENNOX. Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, On pain to be found false and recreant, Both to defend himself, and to approve Henry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby, To God, his sovereign, and to him disloyal, Courageously and with a free desire Attend --Condition?What good condition can a treaty findI' the part that is at mercy?--Five times, Marcius,I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me;And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounterAs often as we eat. Draw, you rogue, or I'll so carbonado your shanks! Draw, you rascal! Come your ways! Osw. Since I was man, Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder, Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never Remember to have heard. I have, since I was three year old, convers'd with a magician, most profound in his art and yet notdamnable. There is division (Although as yet the face of it be cover'd With mutual cunning) 'twixt Albany and Cornwall; Who have (as who have not, that their great stars Thron'd and set high?) servants, who seem no less, Which are to France the spies and speculat --Sons, kinsmen, thanes,And you whose places are the nearest, know,We will establish our estate uponOur eldest, Malcolm; whom we name hereafterThe Prince of Cumberland: which honor mustNot unaccompanied invest him only,But signs of nobleness, like stars,He will (forsooth) haue all my Prisoners:And when I vrg'd the ransom once againeOf my Wiues Brother, then his cheeke look'd pale,And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,Trembling euen at the name of Mortimer Wor. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, LORDS, ORLANDO, CHARLES, and ATTENDANTS FREDERICK. Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord, That it doth hate what gets it. Anon sir, pray you stay a little, my Lord Prin. Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see; She has deceived her father, and may thee. The great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowshipBut, hark! a sail. Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou! Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword; I fear thee not. If I had thee in Lipsbury Pinfold, I would make thee carefor me. Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more:By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis;But how of Cawdor? The Thane of Cawdor lives,A prosperous gentleman; and to be kingStands not within the prospect of belief,No more than to be Cawdor. Why, then your uncle, and the Prince, and Claudio Have been deceived; for they swore you did. Wel, the truth is (sir Iohn) you liue in great infamy Fal. To you, my lord, I come-what lord you will From the most gracious regent of this land, The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on To take advantage of the absent time, And fright our native peace with self-borne arms. If thou shouldst not be glad, I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb, Sepulchring an adultress. This house is little; the old man and 's people Cannot be well bestow'd. I'll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando. Another general shout! I do believe that these applauses are For some new honors that are heap'd on Caesar. Hark, the Duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes. Whence are you, sir? Has the porter his eyes in his head that hegives entrance to such companions? Pray, get you out. Yes, I thanke your pretty sweet wit for it: butlooke you pray, (all you that kisse my Ladie Peace, athome) that our Armies ioyn not in a hot day: for if I takebut two shirts out with me, and I meane not to sweatextraordinarily:if it bee a hot day, if I  The reason why the sevenstars are no moe than seven is a pretty reason. Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench; A brace of draymen bid God speed him well And had the tribute of his supple knee, With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends'; As were our England in reversion his, And he our subjects' next degree in hope. Then leave her, sir; for, by the pow'r that made me, I tell you all her wealth. Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but Nature's, who perceiveth our natural wits too dull to reasonof such goddesses, and hath sent this natural for our whetstone;for always the dullness of the fool is the whetstone of the wits. You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod toher friends: you have not indeed loved the common people. Know we have divided In three our kingdom; and 'tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age, Conferring them on younger strengths while we Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates, Let in that amity which you have made; For at Saint Mary's chapel presently The rites of marriage shall be solemniz'd. Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be med'cinable tome. Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth! CONSTANCE. I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health ofyou. This palt'ringBecomes not Rome; nor has CoriolanusDeserv'd this so dishonour'd rub, laid falselyI' the plain way of his merit. If you do not make him be hang'd among you,the gallowes shall be wrong'd Prince. Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail on one that's neither known of thee nor knows thee! Kent. --My mother, you wot wellMy hazards still have been your solace: andBelieve't not lightly,--though I go alone,Like to a lonely dragon, that his fenMakes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen,--your sonWill or exceed the common or be caughtWith cautelous baI prethee Harry withdraw thy selfe, thou bleedesttoo much: Lord Iohn of Lancaster, go you with him P. He holds me well, The better shall my purpose work on him. I hop? thou shouldst have been my Hamlet? wife; I thought thy bride-bed to have deck?, sweet maid, And not have strew? thy grave. Sound, trumpet! A trumpet sounds. In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she is a strumpet. Why thou Claybrayn'dGuts, thou Knotty-pated Foole, thou Horson obscenegreasie Tallow Catch Falst. My Captaine (Sir) commends him to you:my Captaine, Sir Iohn Falstaffe: a tall Gentleman, and amost gallant Leader Shal. Shall quips and sentences and these paper bulletsof the brain awe a man from the career of his humour? No, theworld must be peopled. Please it your honoursTo call me to your senate, I'll deliverMyself your loyal servant, or endureYour heaviest censure. When we were chosen tribunes for the people,--BRUTUS. Charge an honest Womanwith picking thy pocket? Why thou horson impudentimbost Rascall, if there were any thing in thy Pocket butTauerne Recknings, Memorandums of Bawdie-houses,and one poore peny-worth of Sugar-candie to make theelong-winded: if thy pock Presently away; For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure. Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverentyouth, and I praise God for you. March sadly after; grace my mournings here In weeping after this untimely bier. O, it grieves my soul That I must draw this metal from my side To be a widow-maker! O, and there Where honourable rescue and defence Cries out upon the name of Salisbury! But such is the infection of the time That, for the health and physic of our right Why do you speak so startingly and rash? OTHELLO. Farewell good Wenches:if I be not sent away poste, I will see you againe, ere Igoe Dol. Come on; since the youth will not be entreated, hisown peril on his forwardness. O base Assyrian Knight, what is thy newes?Let King Couitha know the truth thereof Sil. Sir Pierce of Exton, Who lately came from the King, commands the contrary. Tell me, tell mee,How shew'd his Talking? Seem'd it in contempt? Ver. I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar, And things unluckily charge my fantasy. I prethee now deliuer them, like a man of thisWorld Pist. Sweet love, I see, changing his property, Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate. The palaceEnter DUKE FREDERICK, OLIVER, and LORDS FREDERICK. [aside] If I find him comforting the King, it will stuffhis suspicion more fully. But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he hath great care to please his wife. Marry then, sweet Wagge, when thou art King,let not vs that are Squires of the Nights bodie, bee call'dTheeues of the Dayes beautie. Had you rather Caesar were living and die all slaves,than that Caesar were dead to live all freemen? As Caesar lovedme, I weep for him; as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was valiant, I honor him; but as he was ambitious, I slew him. Your highness' partIs to receive our duties: and our dutiesAre to your throne and state, children and servants;Which do but what they should, by doing everythingSafe toward your love and honor. Wherefore? Why, doth not every earthly thing Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny The story that is printed in her blood? Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes; For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die, Thought I thy spirits were stronger tha Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy, and make himgood friend to the people!ALL THREE CITIZENS. Who, young and simple, would not be so lovered? Ay me, I fell, and yet do question make What I should do again for such a sake. Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for the love ofJuno, let's go. I thank God and my cold blood, I amof your humour for that. Bid himah, what? With all good speed at Plashy visit me. Everyone that does so is a traitor, and must be hanged. My dear dear lord, The purest treasure mortal times afford Is spotless reputation; that away, Men are but gilded loam or painted clay. Shall PackHorses,and hollow-pamper'd Iades of Asia, which cannotgoe but thirtie miles a day, compare with C?r, andwith Caniballs, and Troian Greekes? nay, rather damnethem with King Cerberus, and let the Welkin roare: shallwee fall foule for Toyes? Host If I hada monopoly out, they would have part on't. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him by them, in his meed he? unfellowed. Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty? CONSTANCE. O, yet I do repent me of my fury,That I did kill them. Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf Change slander to remorse. Deliuer'd with good respect: And how doth theMartlemas, your Master? Bard. Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably; come, you must govisit the good lady that lies in. If not, wee readie are to trye our fortunes,To the last man Hast. Your worship's wife, my mistress at thePhoenix; She that doth fast till you come home to dinner, And prays that you will hie you home to dinner. Great thing of us forgot! Speak, Edmund, where's the King? and where's Cordelia? The bodies of Goneril and Regan are brought in. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother? death The memory be green, and that it us befitted To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom To be contracted in one brow of woe; Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature That we with wisest sorrow th Who is it in the press that calls on me? I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music, Cry "Caesar. But a Brauer placeIn my hearts loue, hath no man then your Selfe. Get thee glass eyes And, like a scurvy politician, seem To see the things thou dost not. Bounteous madam, Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio, He's never anything but your true servant. But all's brave that youth mounts and folly guides. Sirrah, your brother is legitimate: Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him, And if she did play false, the fault was hers; Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands That marry wives. It is both he and she Your son and daughter. The Volsces and Romans re-enter, and the fightis renewed. Not the ill winde which blowes none to good,sweet Knight: Thou art now one of the greatest men inthe Realme Sil. Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much; buthe'll be meet with you, I doubt it not. Myself, he, and my sister, To-day did dine together. What thing? why a thing to thanke heauen on Host. If all the yeare were playing holidaies,To sport, would be as tedious as to worke;But when they seldome come, they wisht-for come,And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents. --I did never think that lady would have loved any man. Is he array'd? Enter Lear in a chair carried by Servants. Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues Must needs want pleading for a pair of eyes. I am sorry, sir, that I have hind'red you; But I protest he had the chain of me, Though most dishonestly he doth deny it. Now let thy friendly hand Put strength enough to't. Nay, an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be look'd to. It cannot be that Desdemona should long continue her love to the Moorput money in thy pursenor hehis to her. "Fear not, till Birnam woodDo come to Dunsinane;" and now a woodComes toward Dunsinane. Brutus and Cassius Are levying powers; we must straight make head; Therefore let our alliance be combined, Our best friends made, our means stretch'd; And let us presently go sit in council, How covert matters may be best disclosed, And open perils sure We must haue bloodie Noses, and crack'd Crownes,And passe them currant too. [Within] Ay, when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin. Tut, tut, good enough to tosse: foode for Powder,foode for Powder: they'le fill a Pit, as well as better:tush man, mortall men, mortall men Westm. So you shall; And where the offence is let the great axe fall. For Michael Cassio, I dare be sworn I think that he is honest. That which ordinary men are fit for, I am qualified in, and the best ofme is diligence. He that plays the king shall be welcome,?is ma jesty shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose lu The number of the King exceedeth ours:For Gods sake, Cousin, stay till all come in. [Enter CORIOLANUS, VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, MENENIUS, COMINIUS,andseveral young Patricians. And I say the Earth was not of my minde,If you suppose, as fearing you, it shooke Glend. If thou speak'st false,Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth,I care not if thou dost for me as much. [Enter, in mourning habits, VIRGILIA, VOLUMNIA, leading YOUNGMARCIUS, VALERIA, and attendants. How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. Thus I did keepe my Person fresh and new,My Presence like a Robe Pontificall,Ne're seene, but wondred at: and so my State,Seldome but sumptuous, shewed like a Feast,And wonne by rarenesse such Solemnitie. You would be another Penelope; yet they say all the yarn she spunin Ulysses' absence did but fill Ithaca full of moths. He did, my Lord, foure dayes ere I set forth:And at the time of my departure thence,He was much fear'd by his Physician Wor. Exeunt CHATILLON andPEMBROKE ELINOR. O you shall see him laugh, till his Facebe like a wet Cloake, ill laid vp Shal. Make them be strong, and ready for this hint,When we shall hap to give't them. A poor virgin, sir, an ill-favour'd thing, sir, but mine own; a poor humour of mine, sir, to take that that man else will. Health, Peace, and Happinesse,To my Royall Father King. Enter a SERVINGMAN SERVINGMAN. So you thought him, And took his voice who should be prick'd to die In our black sentence and proscription. Thou art the King of Honor:No man so potent breathes vpon the ground,But I will Beard him. Exit [one] with Gloucester. That cuckold lives in bliss Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger; But O, what damned minutes tells he o'er Who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves! OTHELLO. Peace, ho! I bar confusion; 'Tis I must make conclusion Of these most strange events. O Lord, my lord! if they were but a week married, theywould talk themselves mad. Is there none here to give the woman? TOUCHSTONE. Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. All this is so; but what of this, my lord? Claud. What? shall wee haue Incision? shall wee embrew?then Death rocke me asleepe, abridge my dolefulldayes: why then let grieuous, gastly, gaping Wounds,vntwin'd the Sisters three: Come Atropos, I say Host. Puffe? puffe in thy teeth, most recreant Cowardbase. And I must be from thence!My wife kill'd too?ROSS. If thou wer't sensible of curtesie,I should not make so great a shew of Zeale. " Hie thee hither,That I may pour my spirits in thine ear;And chastise with the valor of my tongueAll that impedes thee from the golden round,Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seemTo have thee crown'd withal. Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider thattears do not become a man. Or rather, bottomless; that as fast as you pouraffection in, it runs out. What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?MENENIUS. What, thou speak'st drowsily? Poor knave, I blame thee not, thou art o'erwatch'd. Help, ye citizens![Re-enter Brutus, with the AEDILES and a rabble of Citizens. O, had the gods done so, I had not now Worthily term'd them merciless to us! For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues, We were encount'red by a mighty rock, Which being violently borne upon, Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst; So that The wren goes to't, and the small gilded fly Does lecher in my sight. Have more than thou showest, Speak less than thou knowest, Lend less than thou owest, Ride more than thou goest, Learn more than thou trowest, Set less than thou throwest; Leave thy drink and thy whore, And keep in-a-door, And thou shalt have more Than  Why? She's neither fish nor flesh; a man knowesnot where to haue her Host. Lie with her! lie on her! We say lie on her, when they belie her. Patience and sorrow strove Who should express her goodliest. If I were a woman, I would kiss as many of you as had beardsthat pleas'd me, complexions that lik'd me, and breaths that Idefied not; and, I am sure, as many as have good beards, or goodfaces, or sweet breaths, will, for my kind offer, when I makecurtsy Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you. Let me question more in particular: what have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune, that she sends you to prison hither? Guil. You muddie Rascall, is that all the comfort yougiue me? Falst. Withhold thy speed, dreadful occasion! O, make a league with me, till I have pleas'd My discontented peers! What! mother dead! How wildly then walks my estate in France! Under whose conduct came those pow'rs of France That thou for truth giv'st out are  [The DUKE OF YORK knocks at the door and crieth] YORK. All places that the eye of heaven visits Are to a wise man ports and happy havens. But I tell thee, my hart bleeds inwardly,that my Father is so sicke: and keeping such vild companyas thou art, hath in reason taken from me, all ostentationof sorrow Poin. We three are but thyself, and, speaking so, Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore be bold. This had been chearefull, after Victorie Bish. She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of that:heaven knows what she has known. But so much was our love We would not understand what was most fit; But, like the owner of a foul disease, To keep it from divulging, let it feed Even on the pith of life. When he returns from hunting, I will not speak with him. I know not how to pray your patience; Yet I must speak. And so do I, yet did she call me so; And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here, Did call me brother. But for our trusty brother-in-law and the Abbot, With all the rest of that consorted crew, Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels. Fye, this is hot weather (Gentlemen) haue youprouided me heere halfe a dozen of sufficient men? Shal. If to preserve this vessel for my lord From any other foul unlawful touch Be not to be a strumpet, I am none. If I could get mee a wife in the Stewes, Iwere Mann'd, Hors'd, and Wiu'd. Quoit him downe (Bardolph) like a shoue-groatshilling: nay, if hee doe nothing but speake nothing, heeshall be nothing here Bard. But I shall see The winged vengeance overtake such children. The appellant in all duty greets your Highness, And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave. Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again. Comfort, my liege, why looks your Grace so pale? KING RICHARD. That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it; That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit. Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes; For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change. Hath the fellow any wit that told you this? Ant. Revoke thy gift, Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat, I'll tell thee thou dost evil. You common cry of curs! whose breath I hateAs reek o' the rotten fens, whose loves I prize As the dead carcasses of unburied menThat do corrupt my air,--I banish you;And here remain with your uncertainty!Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!Your eneHe that will think to live till he be old, Give me some help!O cruel! O ye gods! Reg. I only speak right on; I tell you that which you yourselves do know; Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor dumb mouths, And bid them speak for me. Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home? What tributaries follow him to Rome To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels? You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things! O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome, Knew you not Pompey? Ma An Apparition of a Child crowned, with a tree in hishand, rises. My face I'll grime with filth, Blanket my loins, elf all my hair in knots, And with presented nakedness outface The winds and persecutions of the sky. Put your bonnet to his right use; ?is for the head. The better sort, As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd With scruples, and do set the word itself Against the word, As thus: 'Come, little ones'; and then again, 'It is as hard to come as for a camel To thread the postern of a small needle's eye. But I would the Fruiteof her Wombe might miscarry Officer. My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him, That he din'd not at home, but was lock'd out. I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world. Again! Third trumpet. Play, music; and you brides and bridegrooms all, With measure heap'd in joy, to th' measures fall. 'Tis true:If he were putting to my house the brandThat should consume it, I have not the faceTo say 'Beseech you, cease. Enter Gloucester, led by an Old Man. Time is a very bankrupt, and owes more than he's worth to season. See you yond coign o' the Capitol,--yond corner-stone?SICINIUS. The Lord of Stafford deere to day hath boughtThy likenesse: for insted of thee King Harry,This Sword hath ended him, so shall it thee,Vnlesse thou yeeld thee as a Prisoner Blu. And thou a naturall Coward, without instinct Falst. If justice cannot tame you, she shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance. What patch is made our porter? My master stays in the street. No, sir Iohn, you doe not know me, Sir Iohn:I know you, Sir Iohn: you owe me Money, Sir Iohn, andnow you picke a quarrell, to beguile me of it: I boughtyou a dozen of Shirts to your Backe Falst. [Within] Your wife, sir knave! Go get you from thedoor. Now, sir, be judge yourself Whether I in any just term am affined To love the Moor. Nature presently distill'd Helen's cheek, but not her heart, Cleopatra's majesty, Atalanta's better part, Sad Lucretia's modesty. Go but with me to-night,you shall see her chamber window ent'red, even the night beforeher wedding day. There is no honesty in such dealing, vnlesa woman should be made an Asse and a Beast, to beare eueryKnaues wrong. Look you, who comes here,a young man and an old in solemn talk. Break an hour's promise in love! He that will dividea minute into a thousand parts, and break but a part of the thousand part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may besaid of him that Cupid hath clapp'd him o' th' shoulder, but I'll warrant him hear Prepare thy brow to frown:--know'st thou me yet?AUFIDIUS. Exeunt [Hero and Ursula]. With all the gracious utterance thou hast Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends. Is henot wounded? he was wont to come home wounded. Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! Not a word? ROSALIND. Sir, I do know you, And dare upon the warrant of my note Commend a dear thing to you. For us to levy power Proportionable to the enemy Is all unpossible. Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay! Let not a traitor live! ANTONY. You knew he walk'd o're perils, on an edgeMore likely to fall in, then to get o're:You were aduis'd his flesh was capeableOf Wounds, and Scarres; and that his forward SpiritWould lift him, where most trade of danger rang'd,Yet did you say go forth: and nEnter Shallow, Silence, Falstaffe, Bardolfe, Page, and Dauie. The Duke himself, Or any of my brothers of the state, Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own; For if such actions may have passage free, Bond slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be. '"But, O my sweet, what labour is't to leave The thing we have not, mast'ring what not strives, Playing the place which did no form receive, Playing patient sports in unconstrained gyves! She that her fame so to herself contrives, The scars of battle sc If I in act, consent, or sin of thought, Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath Which was embounded in this beauteous clay, Let hell want pains enough to torture me! I left him well. In both our Armies, there is many a souleShall pay full dearely for this encounter,If once they ioyne in triall. Diseased Nature oftentimes breakes forthIn strange eruptions; and the teeming EarthIs with a kinde of Collick pincht and vext,By the imprisoning of vnruly WindeWithin her Wombe: which for enlargement striuing,Shakes the old Beldame Earth, and tombles dow'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I; 'No, sir,' quoth he, 'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune. I have heard The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn, Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat Awake the god of day; and at his warning, Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air, The extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine: and of the t Nay,and the Villaines march wide betwixt the Legges, as ifthey had Gyues on; for indeede, I had the most of themout of Prison. It were a better death than die with mocks, Which is as bad as die with tickling. I understand thee well; and be thou sure,When he shall come to his account, he knows notWhat I can urge against him. I tell thee what, Hal, if I tell thee aLye, spit in my face, call me Horse: thou knowest my oldeword: here I lay, and thus I bore my point; foure Roguesin Buckrom let driue at me Prince. It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out, To let him live. Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSEANGELO. Urge me no more, I shall forget myself; Have mind upon your health, tempt me no farther. Good signior, you shall more command with years Than with your weapons. Away, and mock the time with fairest show:False face must hide what the false heart doth know. Fair and noble hostess,We are your guest tonight. This naughty man Shall fact to face be brought to Margaret, Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong, Hir'd to it by your brother. Why then, take no note of him, but let him go, andpresently call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are ridof a knave. That every like is not the same, O Caesar, The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon! Exeunt. What must I say?--'I pray, sir'--Plague upon't! I cannot bringMy tongue to such a pace. She leansme out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times good night--I tell this tale vilely; I should first tell theehow the Prince, Claudio and my master, planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orc And then for her To win the Moor, were't to renounce his baptism, All seals and symbols of redeemed sin, His soul is so enfetter'd to her love, That she may make, unmake, do what she list, Even as her appetite shall play the god With his weak function. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself, She turns to favour and to prettiness. Enter KING JOHN, ELINOR, BLANCH, the BASTARD, PEMBROKE, and others KING JOHN. If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombsmyself. Your Grace of Yorke, in heauen's name thenforward Bish. I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious talein telling it and deliver a plain message bluntly. O the blest gods! so will you wish on me When the rash mood is on. Away you Starueling, you Elfe-skin, you driedNeats tongue, Bulles-pissell, you stocke-fish: O for brethto vtter. Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges. Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord, Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff That beetles o?r his base into the sea, And there assume some other horrible form Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason,39 And draw you into madness? think o [rises] Never, Regan! She hath abated me of half my train; Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue, Most serpent-like, upon the very heart. My brother Robert, old Sir Robert's son? Colbrand the giant, that same mighty man? Is it Sir Robert's son that you seek so? LADY FAULCONBRIDGE. O, untimely death! Death! He dies. Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd? Thy sheep be in the corn; And for one blast of thy minikin mouth Thy sheep shall take no harm. He bears himself more proudlier,Even to my person, than I thought he wouldWhen first I did embrace him: yet his natureIn that's no changeling; and I must excuseWhat cannot be amended. Well, sir, what answer made the belly?MENENIUS. Bear mine to him, and so depart in peace; Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France; For ere thou canst report I will be there, The thunder of my cannon shall be heard. Silence that dreadful bell; it frights the isle From her propriety. The Duke be here to-night? The better! best! This weaves itself perforce into my business. Why? Wherefore ask you this? IAGO. It will have blood; they say, blood will have blood:Stones have been known to move, and trees to speak;Augurs, and understood relations, haveBy magot-pies, and choughs, and rooks, brought forthThe secret'st man of blood. Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss ofyour marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him towear it. Grant that, and then is death a benefit; So are we Caesar's friends that have abridged His time of fearing death. Your Grace shall pardon me, I will not back: I am too high-born to be propertied, To be a secondary at control, Or useful serving-man and instrument To any sovereign state throughout the world. In good time, sir, what's that?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Merely awry: when he did love his country,It honour'd him. Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge! Thou art the issue of my dear offence, Which was so strongly urg'd past my defence. Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power? Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour. A public place[Enter MENENIUS, SICINIUS, and BRUTUS. If I could bear it longer and not fall To quarrel with your great opposeless wills, My snuff and loathed part of nature should Burn itself out. Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear, My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear. O brave Iago, honest and just, That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong! Thou teachest me. At my TentThe Dowglas is, and I beseech your Grace,I may dispose of him King. Therefore (my Harrie)Be it thy course to busie giddy MindesWith Forraigne Quarrels: that Action hence borne out,May waste the memory of the former dayes. Wee see which way the streame of Time doth runne,And are enforc'd from our most quiet there,By the rough Torrent of Occasion,And haue the summarie of all our Griefes(When time shall serue) to shew in Articles;Which long ere this, wee offer'd to the King,Tribunes! patricians! citizens!--What, ho!--Sicinius, Brutus, Coriolanus, Citizens! CITIZENS. Which some suppose the soul's frail dwelling-house, Doth by the idle comments that it makes Foretell the ending of mortality. I may say so in this respect, for that he hathdevoted and given up himself to the contemplation, mark, anddenotement of her parts and graces. Ile haue it so, a little Charge will doe it Glend. Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there, For there, they say, he daily doth frequent With unrestrained loose companions, Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes And beat our watch and rob our passengers, Which he, young wanton and effeminate  Edmund, I think, is gone, In pity of his misery, to dispatch His nighted life; moreover, to descry The strength o' th' enemy. [Within] Nor to-day here you must not; come again when you may. If it hath ruffian'd so upon the sea, What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them, Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this? SECOND GENTLEMAN. Bid them come forth and hear me, Or at their chamber door I'll beat the drum Till it cry sleep to death. Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may strike at you. I doubt it is no other but the main,?His father? death and our o?rhasty marriage. Why, e?n so: and now my Lady Worm?; chapless, and knocked about the mazard with a sexton? spade: here? fine revolution, an we had the trick to see?. Come, wilt thou see me ride?And when I am a horsebacke, I will sweareI loue thee infinitely. Away Bardolfe, Sadle my Horse,Master Robert Shallow, choose what Office thou wiltIn the Land, 'tis thine. You or any man living may be drunk at some time, man. Almost a mile; but he does usually,So all men do, from hence to the palace gateMake it their walk. A miserable world! As I do live by food, I met a fool, Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun, And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms, In good set termsand yet a motley fool. What's the matter? here be foure of vs, haueta'ne a thousand pound this Morning Prince. It would be euery mans thought: and thou arta blessed Fellow, to thinke as euery man thinkes: neuer amans thought in the world, keepes the Rode-way betterthen thine: euery man would thinke me an Hypocrite indeede. Were you in doubt, sir, that you ask'd her? Leon. Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going;And such an instrument I was to use. Come and be hang'd, hast no faith in thee?Enter Gads-hill. Why shall the people giveOne that speaks thus their voice?CORIOLANUS. Royal Lear, Whom I have ever honour'd as my king, Lov'd as my father, as my master follow'd, As my great patron thought on in my prayers Lear. I will lay trust upon thee, and thou shalt find a dearer father in my love. Quick, quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow. Yet I'll not shed her blood, Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow And smooth as monumental alabaster. If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son, Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,' Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen; For Anjou, and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers, And all that we upon this side the sea Except this city now by us besieg'd F Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain. Lucius, who's thatknocks? Re-enter Lucius with Ligarius. Now, sir, young Fortinbras, Of unimproved mettle hot and full, Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there, Shark? up a list of lawless resolutes, For food and diet, to some enterprise That hath a stomach in?; which is no other,?As it doth well appear  All the pictures fairest lin'd Are but black to Rosalinde. I cannot speak Any beginning to this peevish odds; And would in action glorious I had lost Those legs that brought me to a part of it! OTHELLO. Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in the world; here comes the man you mean. Against my will I am sent to bid You come in to dinner. None but libertines delight in him; and the commendation is not in his wit, butin his villany; for he both pleases men and angers them, andthen they laugh at him and beat him. Your husband, he is gone to save far off, Whilst others come to make him lose at home. The queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play. Exit SILVIUS Enter OLIVER OLIVER. She would have made Hercules have turn'd spit, yea, and have cleft his club tomake the fire too. Machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all ruinous disorders follow us disquietly to our graves. Great Glamis! Worthy Cawdor!Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!Thy letters have transported me beyondThis ignorant present, and I feel nowThe future in the instant. Worcester is stolne away by Night: thy Fathers Beard isturn'd white with the Newes; you may buy Land nowas cheape as stinking Mackrell Prin. Hoppedance cries in Tom's belly for two white herring. We will heal up all, For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Britaine, And Earl of Richmond; and this rich fair town We make him lord of. Cousin: of many menI doe not beare these Crossings: Giue me leaueTo tell you once againe, that at my BirthThe front of Heauen was full of fierie shapes,The Goates ranne from the Mountaines, and the HeardsWere strangely clamorous to the frighted fields:T That she is bound in honour still to do What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say. The King himselfe: who Dowglas grieues at hartSo many of his shadowes thou hast met,And not the very King. If thou beest not damn'd forthis, the devil himself will have no shepherds; I cannot see elsehow thou shouldst scape. Then let us take a ceremonious leave And loving farewell of our several friends. A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,And mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd:--"Give me," quoth I:"Aroint thee, witch!" the rump-fed ronyon cries. I will go losemyself, And wander up and down to view the city. Honour is a meere Scutcheon, and soends my Catechisme. Do'st thou heare Hal? Thou know'st in the stateof Innocency, Adam fell: and what should poore IackeFalstaffe do, in the dayes of Villany? Thou seest, I hauemore flesh then another man, and therefore more frailty. I know you all, and will a-while vpholdThe vnyoak'd humor of your idlenesse:Yet heerein will I imitate the Sunne,Who doth permit the base contagious cloudesTo smother vp his Beauty from the world,That when he please againe to be himselfe,Being wanted, h All but Metellus Cimber, and he's gone To seek you at your house. What say'st thou to a Hare, or the Melanchollyof Moore Ditch? Fal. So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother now than aneight-year-old horse. --We do here pronounce,Upon the part o' the people, in whose powerWe were elected theirs, Marcius is worthyOf present death. We are two lions litter'd in one day, And I the elder and more terrible. --You, worthy uncle,Shall with my cousin, your right-noble son,Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and weShall take upon's what else remains to do,According to our order. Should you do so, my lord, My speech should fall into such vile success Which my thoughts aim not at. Some honest Christian trust me with a gage That Norfolk lies. No abuse (Hall) on mine Honor, no abuse Prince. By this day, she's a fair lady! I do spy some marks of love in her. My legs can keep no measure in delight, When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief; Therefore no dancing, girl; some other sport. O, for two special reasons; Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew?, But yet to me they are strong. Snare, we must Arrest Sir Iohn Falstaffe Host. I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear. This day, great Duke, she shut the doorsupon me, While she with harlots feasted in my house. I do despise them,For they do prank them in authority,Against all noble sufferance. In following him, I follow but myself; Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty, But seeming so, for my peculiar end. Peace, sirrah! You beastly knave, know you no reverence? Kent. Therefore, give out you are of Epidamnum, Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offense should bear his comment. Good gentleman, go your gait, and let poor voke pass. And sweetens, in the suff'ring pangs it bears, The aloes of all forces, shocks and fears. But it isno matter, this poore shew doth better: this doth inferrethe zeale I had to see him Shal. I have heard it said thefittest time to corrupt a man's wife is when she's fallen outwith her husband. Calpurnia here, my wife, stays me at home; She dreamt tonight she saw my statue, Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts, Did run pure blood, and many lusty Romans Came smiling and did bathe their hands in it. It is the shameful work of Hubert's hand; The practice and the purpose of the King; From whose obedience I forbid my soul Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life, And breathing to his breathless excellence The incense of a vow, a holy vow, Never to tast But, woe the while! Our fathers' minds are dead, And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits; Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish. Let it not gall your patience, good Iago, That I extend my manners; 'tis my breeding That gives me this bold show of courtesy. Exit JAQUES ROSALIND. It is but eight yeeres since,This Percie was the man, neerest my Soule,Who, like a Brother, toyl'd in my Affaires,And layd his Loue and Life vnder my foot:Yea, for my sake, euen to the eyes of RichardGaue him defiance. What, vpon compulsion? No: were I at theStrappado, or all the Racks in the World, I would nottell you on compulsion. The summe of all,Is, that the King hath wonne: and hath sent outA speedy power, to encounter you my Lord,Vnder the Conduct of yong LancasterAnd Westmerland. Have you the chain about you?ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. To you I am bound for life and education; My life and education both do learn me How to respect you; you are the lord of duty, I am hitherto your daughter. And you are come in very happy time To bear my greeting to the senators And tell them that I will not come today. Your Brooches, Pearles, and Owches: For toserue brauely, is to come halting off: you know, to comeoff the Breach, with his Pike bent brauely, and to Surgeriebrauely; to venture vpon the charg'd-Chambersbrauely Host. Ascend his throne, descending now from him And long live Henry, fourth of that name! BOLINGBROKE. Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that "Caesar"? Why should that name be sounded more than yours? Write them together, yours is as fair a name; Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well; Weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em, "Brutus" will  Barkloughly Castle can they this at hand? AUMERLE. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body? Ham. His answer was, he would unto the stews, And from the common'st creature pluck a glove And wear it as a favour; and with that He would unhorse the lustiest challenger. His tongue is now a stringless instrument; Words, life, and all, old Lancaster hath spent. Good Master Corporate Bardolph, stand myfriend, and heere is foure Harry tenne shillings in FrenchCrownes for you: in very truth, sir, I had as lief be hang'dsir, as goe: and yet, for mine owne part, sir, I do not care;but rather, because I am vnwilling I cannot think my sister in the least Would fail her obligation. Do grace to Caesar's corse, and grace his speech Tending to Caesar's glories, which Mark Antony, By our permission, is allow'd to make. Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes, Misprizing what they look on; and her wit Values itself so highly that to her All matter else seems weak. Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres, Where be your pow'rs? Show now your mended faiths, And instantly return with me again To push destruction and perpetual shame Out of the weak door of our fainting land. I say the Earth did shake when I was borne Hotsp. He were an excellent man that were made just in themidway between him and Benedick. I then, all-smarting, with my wounds being cold,(To be so pestered with a Popingay)Out of my Greefe, and my Impatience,Answer'd (neglectingly) I know not what,He should, or should not: For he made me mad,To see him shine so briske, and smell so sweet,AndSo did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest man i' theworld. If you will come to me (For now I spy a danger), I entreat you To bring but five-and-twenty. Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it. I am come To bid my king and master aye good night. 'Tis call'd the evil:A most miraculous work in this good king;Which often, since my here-remain in England,I have seen him do. My name is Caius Marcius, who hath doneTo thee particularly, and to all the Volsces,Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness mayMy surname, Coriolanus: the painful service,The extreme dangers, and the drops of bloodShed for my thankless country, are requI do beseech your Grace to pardon me; It is a matter of small consequence Which for some reasons I would not have seen. What an arm he has! He turned me about with his finger and histhumb, as one would set up a top. The King hath call'd his Parliament,My Lord Ch. What's the business,That such a hideous trumpet calls to parleyThe sleepers of the house? speak, speak!MACDUFF. Fortune is merry, And in this mood will give us anything. What's the matter with thee now? EMILIA. By men of Epidamnum he and I And the twin Dromio, all were taken up; But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth By force took Dromio and my son from them, And me they left with those of Epidamnum. Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,Ere humane statute purg'd the gentle weal;Ay, and since too, murders have been perform'dToo terrible for the ear: the time has been,That, when the brains were out, the man would die,And there an end; but noI knew what you would prove; my friends told me as much, and I thought no less. What is thy sentence, then, but speechless death, Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath? KING RICHARD. What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland? How shall we do for money for these wars? Come, sister-cousin, I would say-pray, pardon me. I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall, That I may speak. Dauy, Dauy, Dauy, let me see (Dauy) let me see:William Cooke, bid him come hither. But for William Cook:are there no yong Pigeons? Dauy. Hostesse, clap to the doores: watch to night,pray to morrow. Iwas the other day talking on the sea bank with certain Venetians,and thither comes the bauble, and, by this hand, she falls methus about my neck OTHELLO. A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows, Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows, Am pregnant to good pity. Why, Sir Iohn, my Face does you no harme Falst. God and our right! Exeunt Here, after excursions, enter the HERALD OF FRANCE, with trumpets, to the gates FRENCH HERALD. Your Dane, your German, and your swag-belliedHollander Drink, ho!are nothing to your English. I'll tell thee, Charles, it is the stubbornest young fellow of France; fullof ambition, an envious emulator of every man's good parts, asecret and villainous contriver against me his natural brother. A proper squire! And who? and who? which way looks he? Bora. To wake a Wolfe, is as bad as to smell a Fox Iu. Yong Prince Iohn,And Westmerland, and Stafford, fled the Field. Some dear cause Will in concealment wrap me up awhile. Soft! let me see:?We?l make a solemn wager on your cunnings,?I ha?: When in your motion you are hot and dry,?As make your bouts more violent to that end,?And that he calls for drink, I?l have prepar? him A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping, If  Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose, that whata man cannot smell out, 'a may spy into. --Thou sure and firm-set earth,Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fearThy very stones prate of my whereabout,And take the present horror from the time,Which now suits with it. The cause is in my will: I will not come, That is enough to satisfy the Senate. Though Cassio did some little wrong to him, As men in rage strike those that wish them best, Yet surely Cassio, I believe, received From him that fled some strange indignity, Which patience could not pass. Never such a pow'r For any foreign preparation Was levied in the body of a land. Soon at five o'clock, Please you, I'll meet with you upon the mart, And afterward consort you till bed time. Confirm'd, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron! Would the two princes lie? and Claudio lie, Who lov'd her so that, speaking of her foulness, Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die. The ladies, her attendants of her chamber, Saw her abed, and in the morning early They found the bed untreasur'd of their mistress. What newes Lord Bardolfe? Eu'ry minute nowShould be the Father of some Stratagem;The Times are wilde: Contention (like a HorseFull of high Feeding) madly hath broke loose,And beares downe all before him L. Resolve me with all modest haste which way Thou mightst deserve or they impose this usage, Coming from us. Is it his use? Or did the letters work upon his blood, And new create this fault? IAGO. Yours in the ranks of death! Exit. I must change arms at home and give the distaff Into my husband's hands. <Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSECOURTEZAN. By heauen, he shall not haue a Scot of them:No, if a Scot would saue his Soule, he shall not. I kiss thy hand, but not in flattery, Caesar, Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may Have an immediate freedom of repeal. Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, hecarries his house on his heada better jointure, I think, than youmake a woman; besides, he brings his destiny with him. O, confound the rest! Such love must needs be treason in my breast: In second husband let me be accurst! None wed the second but who kill? the first. I know where I will wear this dagger then: Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius. This to my Lord of Westmerland,Go Peto, to horse: for thou, and I,Haue thirtie miles to ride yet ere dinner time. His last offences to usShall have judicious hearing. I know into what straits of fortune she is driven; and it isnot impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient to you, toset her before your eyes to-morrow, human as she is, and withoutany danger. Pray, chuck, comehither. But for you (Rebels) looke to taste the dueMeet for Rebellion, and such Acts as yours. Boundless intemperanceIn nature is a tyranny; it hath beenThe untimely emptying of the happy throne,And fall of many kings. My Lord (your Sonne) had onely but the Corpes,But shadowes, and the shewes of men to fight. [To France] For you, great King, I would not from your love make such a stray To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you T' avert your liking a more worthier way Than on a wretch whom nature is asham'd Almost t' acknowledge hers. In the meantime, Let me be thought too busy in my fears As worthy cause I have to fear I am And hold her free, I do beseech your honor. [Exeunt Benedick and Leonato. 'Tis his main hope:For where there is advantage to be given,Both more and less have given him the revolt;And none serve with him but constrained things,Whose hearts are absent too. That's the scene that I would see, which will be merely adumb show. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. This purse of ducats I receiv'd from you, And Dromio my man did bring them me. Measureless liar, thou hast made my heartToo great for what contains it. Lechery, sir,it provokes and unprovokes; it provokes the desire, but ittakes away the performance: therefore much drink may be said tobe an equivocator with lechery: it makes him, and it mars him; itsets him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him, a Ay, sir, all this is so:--but whyStands Macbeth thus amazedly?--Come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites,And show the best of our delights;I'll charm the air to give a sound,While you perform your antic round;That this great king may kindly say,Our duties dDo you hear, you minion? You'll let us in,I hope?LUCE. What's the matter, That you unlace your reputation thus, And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night-brawler? Give me answer to it. When I dissuaded him from his intent And found him pight to do it, with curst speech I threaten'd to discover him. Here stand (my Lords) and send discouerers forth,To know the numbers of our Enemies Hast. I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho! A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend. A thousand favours from a maund she drew Of amber, crystal, and of beaded jet, Which one by one she in a river threw, Upon whose weeping margent she was set; Like usury applying wet to wet, Or monarchs' hands that lets not bounty fall Where want cries s Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet: That, when we have found the King (in which your pain That way, I'll this), he that first lights on him Holla the other. With this strange virtue,He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy;And sundry blessings hang about his throne,That speak him full of grace. Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measureThe table round. 1516 If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus, The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste. If she had been blest, she would never have loved the Moor. No, Ile be sworne, vnlesse you call three fingerson the Ribbes bare. My lord, this would not be believed in Venice, Though I should swear I saw't. Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not? Gent. They shall be married to-morrow; and I will bid theDuke to the nuptial. Justice, most sacred Duke, against the Abbess!DUKE. So to your pleasures; I am for other than for dancing measures. You Rogue, heere's Lime in this Sacke too: thereis nothing but Roguery to be found in Villanous man; yeta Coward is worse then a Cup of Sack with lime. You say you are a better soldier: Let it appear so, make your vaunting true, And it shall please me well. Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended him; and atmy entreaty forbear his presence until some little time hath qualified the heat of his displeasure, which at this instantso rageth in him that with the mischief of your person it would scarcely a Because I will not dothem the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the right totrust none; and the fine is (for the which I may go the finer), Iwill live a bachelor. I haue paid Percy, I haue made him sure Prin. O, when she had writ it, and was reading it over, shefound 'Benedick' and 'Beatrice' between the sheet? Claud. Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain; Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman, And I, to blame, have held him here too long. Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night! King. I am the Prince of Wales, and thinke not Percy,To share with me in glory any more:Two Starres keepe not their motion in one Sphere,Nor can one England brooke a double reigne,Of Harry Percy, and the Prince of Wales Hot. Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum;See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair;As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:--'Come on, you cowards! you were got in fearThough you were born in Rome:' You are wel encountred here (my cosin Mowbray)Good day to you, gentle Lord Archbishop,And so to you Lord Hastings, and to all. O' my troth, I looked upon him o' Wednesday, half an hourtogether: has such a confirmed countenance. I am Sir, vnder the King, in some Authority Pist. O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven! Keep me in temper; I would not be mad! [Enter a Gentleman. Come Brother Iohn, full brauely hast thou fleshtthy Maiden sword Iohn. Be thou my witness that, against my will, As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set Upon one battle all our liberties. This man said, sir, that Don John the Prince'sbrother was a villain. O, neverShall sun that morrow see!Your face, my thane, is as a book where menMay read strange matters:--to beguile the time,Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,But be the serpent under't. I haue a whole Schoole of tongues in this belly ofmine, and not a Tongue of them all, speakes anie otherword but my name: and I had but a belly of any indifferencie,I were simply the most actiue fellow in Europe:my wombe, my wombe, my wombe vndoes mee. Will you, with those infirmities she owes, Unfriended, new adopted to our hate, Dow'r'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath, Take her, or leave her? Bur. And though wee here fall downe,Wee haue Supplyes, to second our Attempt:If they mis-carry, theirs shall second them. What I should think of this cannot tell: But this I think, there's no man is so vain That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain. Well, for your favour, sir, why, give God thanks and make no boast of it;and for your writing and reading, let that appear when there isno need of such vanity. Away with me, all you whose souls abhor Th' uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house; For I am stifled with this smell of sin. I had rather liueWith Cheese and Garlick in a Windmill farre,Then feede on Cates, and haue him talke to me,In any Summer-House in Christendome Mort. You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life That should be in a Roman you do want, Or else you use not. Beshrew him for't! How comes this trick upon him? DESDEMONA. With half that face would he have all my land: A half-fac'd groat five hundred pound a year! ROBERT. Go you down that way towards the Capitol; This way will I. I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done. And I heare moreouer, his Highnesse is falne intothis same whorson Apoplexie Iust. Ha! What is't thou say'st, Her voice was ever soft, Gentle, and lowan excellent thing in woman. Give ear, sir, to my sister; For those that mingle reason with your passion Must be content to think you old, and so But she knows what she does. --Will you hence,Before the tag return? whose rage doth rendLike interrupted waters, and o'erbearWhat they are used to bear. He hath indeed better bett'red expectation than you must expect of me totell you how. Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me;But owe thy pride thyself. Enter Henry Prince of Wales, Sir Iohn Falstaffe, and Pointz. What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer? Hast thou delight to see a wretched man Do outrage and displeasure to himself?OFFICER. So with me:--My birthplace hate I, and my love's uponThis enemy town. I have professed me thy friend, and I confess meknit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness; I couldnever better stead thee than now. I could tell you more news too: Marullus and Flavius, forpulling scarfs off Caesar's images, are put to silence. What a case am I in then, that am neither a good epilogue, norcannot insinuate with you in the behalf of a good play! I am not furnish'd like a beggar; therefore to beg will not become me. What, is my Richard both in shape and mind Transform'd and weak'ned? Hath Bolingbroke depos'd Thine intellect? Hath he been in thy heart? The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage To be o'erpow'r'd; and wilt Near or far off, well won is still well shot; And I am I, howe'er I was begot. You may not pass; you must return: our generalWill no more hear from thence. Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane, Drink off this potion. So shaken as we are, so wan with care,Finde we a time for frighted Peace to pant,And breath shortwinded accents of new broilsTo be commenc'd in Stronds a-farre remote:No more the thirsty entrance of this Soile,Shall daube her lippes with her owne childr So out went the candle, and we were left darkling. And, gentle master, I receiv'd no gold; But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out. He that dependsUpon your favours swims with fins of lead,And hews down oaks with rushes. let me not vnderstand you then, speake it inWelsh Glend. It was, as I have seen it in his life, A sable silver?. But thebottom of the news is, our general is cut i' the middle, and butone half of what he was yesterday; for the other has half, by theentreaty and grant of the whole table. Well, sit we down, And let us hear Bernardo speak of this. So many journeys may the sun and moon Make us again count o?r ere love be done! But, woe is me, you are so sick of late, So far from cheer and from your former state. So will I turn her virtue into pitch, And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all. My lord, my lord, I'll prove it on his body if he dare, Despite his nice fence and his active practice, His May of youth and bloom of lustihood. I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with my prayers;but I cannot go thither. Your Meanes is very slender, and your wast great Fal. O, such a Day,(So fought, so follow'd, and so fairely wonne)Came not, till now, to dignifie the TimesSince C?rs Fortunes Nor. What should such fellows as I do crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves, all; believe none of us. If my Tongue cannot entreate you to acquit me: will you commandme to vsemy Legges? And yet that were but light payment, to Dance out ofyour debt:Buta good Conscience, will make any possible satisfaction, and sowill I. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] Noble lord, Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle; Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver: Henry Bolingbroke On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand, And sends allegiance  God's my life, where's the sexton? Let him write down the Prince's officer coxcomb. I did so; and went further, which is nowOur point of second meeting. O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me! Even daughter, welcome in no less degree. [Enter CORIOLANUS, in mean apparel, disguised and muffled. Most monstrous! Know'st thou this paper? Gon. For when his head-strong Riot hath no Curbe,When Rage and hot-Blood are his Counsailors,When Meanes and lauish Manners meete together;Oh, with what Wings shall his Affections flyeTowards fronting Perill, and oppos'd Decay? War. A nun of winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously; the very iceof chastity is in them. Enter, with Drum and Colours, the Powers of Franceover the stage, Cordelia with her Father in her hand, and exeunt. I have brought Count Claudio, whom yousent me to seek. Now in respect it is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but inrespect it is not in the court, it is tedious. What is the matter,That being pass'd for consul with full voice,I am so dishonour'd that the very hourYou take it off again?SICINIUS. That monster custom, who all sense doth eat, Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,?That to the use of actions fair and good He likewise gives a frock or livery That aptly is put on. Are we not beaten? Is not Angiers lost? Arthur ta'en prisoner? Divers dear friends slain? And bloody England into England gone, O'erbearing interruption, spite of France? LEWIS. Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd; Here is my journey's end, here is my butt And very sea-mark of my utmost sail. O world, thy slippery turns! Friends now fast sworn,Whose double bosoms seems to wear one heart,Whose hours, whose bed, whose meal and exerciseAre still together, who twin, as 'twere, in loveUnseparable, shall within this hour,On a dissension of a doit, Draw, you whoreson cullionly barbermonger! draw! Osw. Come, ladies, go To meet at London London's King in woe. I tell thee she is; and therefore make her grave straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it Christian burial. Therefore, thou happy father, Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours Of men's impossibility, have preserv'd thee. I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land, To wash this blood off from my guilty hand. O Hal, I prethee giue me leaue to breath awhile:Turke Gregory neuer did such deeds in Armes, as I hauedone this day. I doe remember him at Clements Inne,like a man made after Supper, of a Cheese-paring. I have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his hands for my service but blows. And is olde Double dead?Enter Bardolph and his Boy. My comfort is that heaven will take our souls, And plague injustice with the pains of hell. Then comes the time, who lives to see't, That going shall be us'd with feet. My villany they have upon record, which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my shame. An open place wear Swinstead AbbeyEnter the BASTARD and HUBERT, severally HUBERT. So I told him, my Lord; and I said, I heard yourGrace say so: and (my Lord) hee speakes most vilely ofyou, like a foule-mouth'd man as hee is, and said, heewould cudgell you Prince. Give me that man That is not passion? slave, and I will wear him In my heart? core, ay, in my heart of heart, As I do thee. A lean cheek, which you have not; a blue eye andsunken, which you have not; an unquestionable spirit, which you havenot; a beard neglected, which you have not; but I pardon you forthat, for simply your having in beard is a younger brother'srevenue. We may guess by this whatyou are, being a man. Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile, Hath not old custom made this life more sweet Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods More free from peril than the envious court? Here feel we not the penalty of Adam, The seasons' difference; as the icy f Hath homely age th' alluring beauty took From my poor cheek? Then he hath wasted it. No, I defy all counsel, all redress, But that which ends all counsel, true redress Death, death; O amiable lovely death! Thou odoriferous stench! sound rottenness! Arise forth from the couch of lasting night, Thou hate and terror to prosperity, And I wi An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the onlycolour. I prethee Iack be quiet, the Rascall is gone: ah,you whorson little valiant Villaine, you Host. He apprehends a World of Figures here,But not the forme of what he should attend:Good Cousin giue me audience for a-while,And list to me Hot. This is a subtle whore, A closet lock and key of villainous secrets. Why, this is flatperjury, to call a prince's brother villain. Call Claudio and some other of my men, I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent. 'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose. Here (Pistol) I chargeyou with a Cup of Sacke: doe you discharge vpon mineHostesse Pist. Tut, neuer feare me, I am as vigilant as a Cat, tosteale Creame Prince. If lusty love should go in quest of beauty, Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch? If zealous love should go in search of virtue, Where should he find it purer than in Blanch? If love ambitious sought a match of birth, Whose veins bound richer b In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn; Engage it to the trial, if thou dar'st. His pupil ageMan-enter'd thus, he waxed like a sea;And in the brunt of seventeen battles since He lurch'd all swords of the garland. The ladies follow her andbut one visor remains. What say you to it? Will you againe vnknitThis churlish knot of all-abhorred Warre?And moue in the obedient Orbe againe,Where you did giue a faire and naturall light,And be no more an exhall'd Meteor,A prodigie of Feare, and a PortentOf broached MischeefI am now of all humors, that haue shewed themselueshumors, since the old dayes of goodman Adam, tothe pupill age of this present twelue a clock at midnight. There is an old poor man Who after me hath many a weary step Limp'd in pure love; till he be first suffic'd, Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger, I will not touch a bit. Here doth hee wish his Person, with such PowersAs might hold sortance with his Qualitie,The which hee could not leuie: whereuponHee is retyr'd, to ripe his growing Fortunes,To Scotland; and concludes in heartie prayers,That your Attempts may ouer-liue thI have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight. He had none:His flight was madness: when our actions do not,Our fears do make us traitors. Marry, I?l teach you: think yourself a baby; That you have ta?n these tenders for true pay, Which are not sterling. Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep? Am I the motive of these tears, my lord? If haply you my father do suspect An instrument of this your calling back, Lay not your blame on me. How now! What means death in this rude assault? Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument. Whence com'st thou? what wouldst thou? thy name?Why speak'st not? speak, man: what's thy name?CORIOLANUS. Ay, amen! [Exeunt Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and some Attendants]. What it should be, More than his father? death, that thus hath put him So much from the understanding of himself, I cannot dream of: I entreat you both That, being of so young days brought up with him, And since so neighbour? to his youth and humour, Th It anger'd him to the heart: but hee hath forgotthat 1. So, here comes a brace:[Re-enter two citizens. What's sweet to do, to do will aptly find: Each eye that saw him did enchant the mind; For on his visage was in little drawn What largeness thinks in Paradise was sawn. I would they were in Tiber! What the vengeance, could he not speak 'em fair?[Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, with the rabble. Some tender money to me, some invite me, Some other give me thanks for kindnesses, Some offer me commodities to buy; Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop, And show'd me silks that he had bought for me, And therewithal took measure of my body. My lord shall never rest; I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience; His bed shall seem a school, his board a shrift; I'll intermingle everything he does With Cassio's suit. My Daughter weepes, shee'le not part with you,Shee'le be a Souldier too, shee'le to the Warres Mort. Why should I not? Doth he not deserve well? Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with LORDS ROSALIND. Who talks within there? Ho, open the door!DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at the arm's end. Truly to speak, and with no addition, We go to gain a little patch of ground That hath in it no profit but the name. The codpiece that will house Before the head has any, The head and he shall louse: So beggars marry many. So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure. O, but they say the tongues of dying men Enforce attention like deep harmony. I should to Plashy too, But time will not permit. White his shroud as the mountain snow, [Enter King. But such officers do the king best service in the end: he keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to be last swallowed: when he needs what you have gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you shall be dry again. A colour I feare, that you will dye in, Sir Iohn Fal. A soldier's a man; O, man's life's but a span; Why then let a soldier drink. And once dispatch'd him in an embassy To Germany, there with the Emperor To treat of high affairs touching that time. How fearful And dizzy 'tis to cast one's eyes so low! The crows and choughs that wing the midway air Show scarce so gross as beetles. I can suckmelancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. Neither call the giddiness of it in question, thepoverty of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden wooing, nor hersudden consenting; but say with me, I love Aliena; say with her thatshe loves me; consent with both that we may enjoy each other. Brother, the King hath made your Nephew mad Wor. We should have else desir'd your good advice,--Which still hath been both grave and prosperous,--In this day's council; but we'll take to-morrow. This admiration, sir, is much o' th' savour Of other your new pranks. And is't not pity, O my grieved friends! That we, the sons and children of this isle, Were born to see so sad an hour as this; Wherein we step after a stranger-march Upon her gentle bosom, and fill up Her enemies' ranks-I must withdraw and weep Upon the Harke, how hard he fetches breath: search hisPockets. Marry, once before hewon it of me with false dice; therefore your Grace may well say I have lost it. I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious Lord,Be more my selfe King. What then? what rests? Try what repentance can: what can it not? Yet what can it when one cannot repent? O wretched state! O bosom black as death! O limed soul, that, struggling to be free, Art more engag?! Help, angels! Make assay: Bow, stubborn knees; But have you never found my brother's way To the forfended place? Edm. Through all the Kingdomes that acknowledge Christ,Thrice hath the Hotspur Mars, in swathing Clothes,This Infant Warrior, in his Enterprises,Discomfited great Dowglas, ta'ne him once,Enlarged him, and made a friend of him,To fill the mouth of deepe DefianThe heauens were all on fire, the Earth didtremble Hotsp. Come, come; sans compliment, what news abroad? HUBERT. That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time And drawing days out that men stand upon. I'll put't in proof, And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law, Then kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill! Enter a Gentleman [with Attendants]. Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls. Must I bouge? Must I observe you? Must I stand and crouch Under your testy humor? By the gods, You shall digest the venom of your spleen, Though it do split you, for, from this day forth, I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter, When you are was Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it Without a prompter. O, now forever Farewell the tranquil mind! Farewell content! Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars That make ambition virtue! O, farewell, Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump, The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife, The royal  Away, before! conduct me to the King; I doubt he will be dead or ere I come. Come, Antony, away! Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth. Indeed, I thinke he bee, but Goodman Puffe ofBarson Pist. Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours, My oath, and my profession. Is there any ship puts forth to-night? May we be gone?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. [Re-enter GENTLEWOMAN, with VALERIA and her Usher. Enter COMINIUS and TITUS LARTIUS;between them, CORIOLANUS, crowned with an oaken garland; withCAPTAINS and Soldiers and a HERALD. Who then perswaded you to stay at home?There were two Honors lost; Yours, and your Sonnes. And these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent, and on her knee Hath begg'd that I will stay at home today. If I can fasten but one cup upon him, With that which he hath drunk tonight already, He'll be as full of quarrel and offense As my young mistress' dog. Such men as he be never at heart's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves, And therefore are they very dangerous. Some reasons of this double coronation I have possess'd you with, and think them strong; And more, more strong, when lesser is my fear, I shall indue you with. So slides he down upon his grained bat, And comely distant sits he by her side; When he again desires her, being sat, Her grievance with his hearing to divide. O, let us pay the time but needful woe, Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs. With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?LUCIANA. You must needes learne, Lord, to amend this fault:Though sometimes it shew Greatnesse, Courage, Blood,And that's the dearest grace it renders you;Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh Rage,Defect of Manners, want of Gouernment,Pride, Haughtinesse, OpinionApproach the chamber, and destroy your sightWith a new Gorgon:--do not bid me speak;See, and then speak yourselves. She that doth call me husband, even my soul Doth for a wife abhor. Exeunt Iago andAttendants. Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant, and live. O Westmerland, thou art a Summer Bird,Which euer in the haunch of Winter singsThe lifting vp of day. Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall, And by the doom of death end woes and all. These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing Will make him fly an ordinary pitch, Who else would soar above the view of men And keep us all in servile fearfulness. Let them assemble;And, on a safer judgment, all revokeYour ignorant election: enforce his prideAnd his old hate unto you: besides, forget notWith what contempt he wore the humble weed;How in his suit he scorn'd you: but your loves,Thinking upon his serviTeach it but how, And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn Any hard lesson that may do thee good. What? Michael Cassio, That came awooing with you, and so many a time When I have spoke of you dispraisingly Hath ta'en your partto have so much to do To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much OTHELLO. Cheater, call you him? I will barre no honestman my house, nor no Cheater: but I doe not loue swaggering;I am the worse when one sayes, swagger: FeeleMasters, how I shake: looke you, I warrant you Dol. A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all! I might have sav'd her; now she's gone for ever! Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. O, hardness to dissemble! How do you, Desdemona? DESDEMONA. Your temples burned in their cement; andYour franchises, whereon you stood, confin'dInto an auger's bore. Go back again, and be new beaten home? For God's sake, send some other messenger. How! no more!As for my country I have shed my blood,Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungsCoin words till their decay against those measlesWhich we disdain should tetter us, yet soughtThe very way to catch them. If the Cooke make the Gluttonie, you helpe tomake the Diseases (Dol) we catch of you (Dol) we catchof you: Grant that, my poore Vertue, grant that Dol. What, Pindarus! Where art thou, Pindarus? MESSALA. A pox of this Gowt, or a Gowt of this Poxe:for the one or th' other playes the rogue with my greattoe: It is no matter, if I do halt, I haue the warres for mycolour, and my Pension shall seeme the more reasonable. Your virtue isTo make him worthy whose offence subdues him,And curse that justice did it. This tempest will not give me leave to ponder On things would hurt me more. There is a Historie in all mens Liues,Figuring the nature of the Times deceas'd:The which obseru'd, a man may prophecieWith a neere ayme, of the maine chance of things,As yet not come to Life, which in their SeedesAnd weake beginnings lye entreasured:Su Thou art a fellow of a good respect; Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it. Doe thou amend thy Face, and Ile amend thyLife: Thou art our Admirall, thou bearest the Lanternein the Poope, but 'tis in the Nose of thee; thou art theKnight of the burning Lampe Bard. --You tribunesTo the people,--Coriolanus, patience:--Speak, good Sicinius. Why may not hee rise aswell as I: Nothing confutes me but eyes, and no-bodiesees me. Anon, I wot not by what strong escape, He broke from those that had the guard of him, And with his mad attendant and himself, Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords, Met us again and, madly bent on us, Chas'd us away; till, raising of more aid, Hark! Re-enter Iago, with a light. She speaks much of her father; says she hears There? tricks i?the world, and hems, and beats her heart; Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt, That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing, Yet the unshaped use of it doth move The hearer This chain you had of me; can you deny it?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love; For I do love her most unfeignedly. You are too absolute;Though therein you can never be too noble But when extremities speak. I have perceived a most faint neglect of late, which I have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness. I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts, wherein I confess me much guilty to deny so fair andexcellent ladies any thing. I follow him to serve my turn upon him: We cannot all be masters, nor all masters Cannot be truly follow'd. Prithee, tonight Lay on my bed my wedding sheets. Thy friend no lessThan those she placeth highest!--So farewell. What may the Kings whole Battaile reachvnto? Ver. If you do find him, pray you give him this; And when your mistress hears thus much from you, I pray desire her call her wisdom to her. Enter SIR OLIVER MARTEXT Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met. --Therefore be it known,As to us, to all the world, that Caius MarciusWears this war's garland: in token of the which,My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,With all his trim belonging; and from this time,For what he did before Corioli, call him, So I, to find a mother and a brother, In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself. Despair thy charm;And let the angel whom thou still hast serv'dTell thee, Macduff was from his mother's wombUntimely ripp'd. Ipray you, how many hath he kill'd and eaten in these wars? But how many hath he kill'd? For indeed I promised to eat all of his killing. But he, as loving his own pride and purposes, Evades them, with a bumbast circumstance Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war, And, in conclusion, Nonsuits my mediators; for, "Certes," says he, "I have already chose my officer. O, speak to me no more; These words like daggers enter in mine ears; No more, sweet Hamlet. Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth, Call not me slanderer! Thou and thine usurp The dominations, royalties, and rights, Of this oppressed boy; this is thy eldest son's son, Infortunate in nothing but in thee. Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight. Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn. [Snatching a weapon and killing one] Go thou and fill another room in hell. Come hither, fellow; Which way hast thou been? SOOTHSAYER. But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year elderthan this, who yet is no dearer in my account. So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by themeans I shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most profitably removed, without the which there were noexpectation of our prosperity. I'll devil-porter it no further: I had thought to have let insome of all professions, that go the primrose way to theeverlasting bonfire. And heere is my speech: stand aside Nobilitie Hostesse. 'Tis no matter; ne'er a fantastical knave of them all shall flout me out of my calling. I thank my liege that in regard of me He shortens four years of my son's exile; But little vantage shall I reap thereby, For ere the six years that he hath to spend Can change their moons and bring their times about, My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted  He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again. To have a thousand with red burning spits Come hizzing in upon 'em Edg. To do what service am I sent for hither? YORK. Then all together They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence, And in a dark and dankish vault at home There left me and my man, both bound together; Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder, I gain'd my freedom, and immediately Ran hither to your What had he done, to make him fly the land?ROSS. Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of Father Time himself. Make lesse thy body (hence) and more thy Grace,Leaue gourmandizing; Know the Graue doth gapeFor thee, thrice wider then for other men. Do'st thou speake like a King? doe thou standfor mee, and Ile play my Father Falst. Now, gods, stand up for bastards! Enter Gloucester. Consent to pay thee that I never had! Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou dar'st. True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's subjects. What trust is in these Times?They, that when Richard liu'd, would haue him dye,Are now become enamour'd on his graue. Peace! Here comes my sister, reading; stand aside. It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain; No medicine in the world can do thee good; In thee there is not half an hour of life; The treacherous instrument is in thy hand, Unbated and envenom?: the foul practice Hath turn? itself on me; lo, here I lie, King Richard, he is in the mighty hold Of Bolingbroke. To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now, Whose state and honour I for aye allow. 'Tis Aufidius,Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,Thrusts forth his horns again into the world;Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,And durst not once peep out. A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say'Wit, whither wilt?' ROSALIND. )I should reioyce now, at this happy newes,And now my Sight fayles, and my Braine is giddie. Truly, by your office you may; but I think they that touch pitch will be defil'd. Bless thee from whirlwinds, star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom somecharity, whom the foul fiend vexes. What is the King but fiue & twenty thousand? Hast. Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town? FIRST SENATOR. I will, sir, flatter my sworn brother, thepeople, to earn a dearer estimation of them; 'tis a conditionthey account gentle: and since the wisdom of their choice israther to have my hat than my heart, I will practise theinsinuating nod and be off to them O Cassio, whence came this? This is some token from a newer friend. He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou: Free speech and fearless I to thee allow. on a band, but on a stronger thing, A chain, a chain. My lord, I will be rul?; The rather if you could devise it so That I might be the organ. Dead for a ducat, dead! [Makes a pass through the arras. Take you some company, and away to horse! Inform her full of my particular fear, And thereto add such reasons of your own As may compact it more. " Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor; So come my soul to bliss, as I speak true; So speaking as I think, I die, I die. Change places and,handy-dandy, which is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen a farmer's dog bark at a beggar? Glou. [To Don John] Let me bid you welcome, my lord. But that's all one, they'le findeLinnen enough on euery Hedge. Hie, good Sir Michell, beare this sealed BriefeWith winged haste to the Lord Marshall,This to my Cousin Scroope, and all the restTo whom they are directed. Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would fly?THIRD CITIZEN. Those that are good manners atthe court are as ridiculous in the country as the behaviour ofthe country is most mockable at the court. Come, my dear love, The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue; That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you. Will you be bound for nothing? Be mad, good master; cry 'The devil!'LUCIANA. Alas, how is? with you, That you do bend your eye on vacancy, And with the incorporal air do hold discourse? Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep; And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm, Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements, Start up an Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage, Disclaiming here the kindred of the King; And lay aside my high blood's royalty, Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except. Hall to thee, lady! And the grace of heaven, Before, behind thee, and on every hand, Enwheel thee round! DESDEMONA. Dead?hee would haue clapt in the Clowt at Twelue-score, andcarryed you a fore-hand Shaft at foureteene, and foureteeneand a halfe, that it would haue done a mans heartgood to see. A street leading to the TowerEnter the QUEEN, with her attendants QUEEN. O, do not do your cousin such a wrong! She cannot be so much without true judgment (Having so swift and excellent a wit As she is priz'd to have) as to refuse So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick. The servants of the Duke? And my lieutenant? The goodness of the night upon you, friends! What is the news? CASSIO. The citizens of Corioli have issued,And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:I saw our party to their trenches driven,And then I came away. O, now you weep, and I perceive you feel The dint of pity. I whipt me behind the arras and there heard itagreed upon that the Prince should woo Hero for himself, and having obtain'd her, give her to Count Claudio. Go in with me, and councell euery manThe aptest way for safety, and reuenge:Get Posts, and Letters, and make Friends with speed,Neuer so few, nor neuer yet more need. There is a litter ready; lay him in't And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet Both welcome and protection. Brave soldier, pardon me That any accent breaking from thy tongue Should scape the true acquaintance of mine ear. Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly. Why, anything; An honorable murtherer, if you will, For nought did I in hate, but all in honor. Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile, And touch thy instrument a strain or two? LUCIUS. Soone after that, depriu'd him of his Life:And in the neck of that, task't the whole State. Were I my father, coz, would I do this? ORLANDO. I haue a Gammon of Bacon, and two razes ofGinger, to be deliuered as farre as Charing-crosse 1. I doe heerewalke before thee, like a Sow, that hath o'rewhelm'd allher Litter, but one. Let me desire your company: he must come,Or what is worst will follow. How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,Of sorriest fancies your companions making;Using those thoughts which should indeed have diedWith them they think on? Things without all remedyShould be without regard: what's done is done. Look Lucius, here's the book I sought for so; I put it in the pocket of my gown. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England? 1 Clown. Again! Second trumpet. No? Why, 'tis a plain case: he that went, like a bass-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir, that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob, and rest them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed men, and give them suits of durance; he that sets up his I cannot, nor I will not hold me still; My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will. Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing. Even by the rule of that philosophy By which I did blame Cato for the death Which he did give himselfI know not how, But I do find it cowardly and vile, For fear of what might fall, so to prevent The time of lifearming myself with patience To stay the p The gentlemanthat danc'd with her told her she is much wrong'd by you. ' Hum! Conspiracy? 'Sleep till I wak'd him, you should enjoyhalf his revenue. Hence therefore, euery Leader to his charge,For on their answer will we set on them;And God befriend vs, as our cause is iust. Ay, sir, but I am sure I do not; and whatsoever a man denies, you are now bound to believe him. Plead you to me, fair dame? I know younot: In Ephesus I am but two hours old, As strange unto your town as to your talk, Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd, Wants wit in all one word to understand. Why, ?is a loving and a fair reply: Be as ourself in Denmark. Noble tribunes,It is the humane way: the other courseWill prove too bloody; and the end of itUnknown to the beginning. O, call back yesterday, bid time return, And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men! To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late, O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune, and thy state; For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead, Are gone to Bolingbroke Exit Enter CORIN CORIN. Marry sir, thus: those Precepts cannot beeseru'd: and againe sir, shall we sowe the head-land withWheate? Shal. If YOU went in pain, master, this 'knave'would go sore. Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead? SCROOP. Put money in thy purse; followthou the wars; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard. Well, that is the dowry of his wife; 'tis none ofhis own getting. Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial. Because we come to do you service andyou think we are ruffians, you'll have your daughter covered witha Barbary horse; you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'llhave coursers for cousins, and gennets for germans. O that a man should speak those words to me! BASTARD. So that, I say,He has borne all things well: and I do think,That had he Duncan's sons under his key,--As, an't please heaven, he shall not,--they should findWhat 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance. What art thouThat counterfeit'st the person of a King? King. So tell your Cousin, and bring me word,What he will do. But, by your favour, How near's the other army? Gent. Enter, with Drum and Colours, Cordelia, Doctor, and Soldiers. O, if it should, how would thy guttes fall aboutthy knees. Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was soslain? Kent. I know not that; but such a handkerchief I am sure it was your wife'sdid I today See Cassio wipe his beard with. What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you avoid the house. I'll speak a prophecy ere I go: When priests are more in word than matter; When brewers mar their malt with water; When nobles are their tailors' tutors, No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors; When every case in law is right, No squire in debt nor no Their cheer is the greaterthat I am subdued. This way the King will come; this is the way To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower, To whose flint bosom my condemned lord Is doom'd a prisoner by proud Bolingbroke. And the ecstasyhath so much overborne her that my daughter is sometime afeard shewill do a desperate outrage to herself. The lists at CoventryEnter the LORD MARSHAL and the DUKE OF AUMERLE MARSHAL. But who comes here? Enter PERCY Welcome, Harry. Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily; Let not our looks put on our purposes, But bear it as our Roman actors do, With untired spirits and formal constancy. Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!FIRST WITCH. O, these men, these men! Dost thou in conscience thinktell me, Emilia That there be women do abuse their husbands In such gross kind? EMILIA. Not to disprayse me? and call me Pantler, andBread-chopper, and I know not what? Fal. Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst beenwise. Arise, arise! Awake the snorting citizens with the bell, Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you. Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him! Reg. According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases. And why not the swift foot of Time? Had not that beenas proper? ROSALIND. Speak then, Prince Dauphin; can you love this lady? LEWIS. Cousin Aumerle, How far brought you high Hereford on his way? AUMERLE. I might ask you for your commission; butI do takethee, Orlando, for my husband. For heaven sake, Hubert, let me not be bound! Nay, hear me, Hubert! Drive these men away, And I will sit as quiet as a lamb; I will not stir, nor wince, nor speak a word, Nor look upon the iron angrily; Thrust but these men away, and I'll forgive you, W Wherefore, bold peasant, Dar'st thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence! Lest that th' infection of his fortune take Like hold on thee. I am ioyned with no Foot-land-Rakers, No Long-staffesix-penny strikers, none of these madMustachio-purple-hu'd-Maltwormes,but with Nobility, and Tranquilitie;Bourgomasters, and great Oneyers, such as can holde in,such as will strike sooner then speake; aBut once he slander'd me with bastardy; But whe'er I be as true begot or no, That still I lay upon my mother's head; But that I am as well begot, my liege Fair fall the bones that took the pains for me! Compare our faces and be judge yourself. Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul, But I do love thee! and when I love thee not, Chaos is come again. The time was once when thou unurg'd wouldst vow That never words were music to thine ear, That never object pleasing in thine eye, That never touch well welcome to thy hand, That never meat sweet-savour'd in thy taste, Unless I spake, or look'd, or touc I give you welcome with a powerless hand, But with a heart full of unstained love; Welcome before the gates of Angiers, Duke. A Randeuous, a Home to flye vnto,If that the Deuill and Mischance looke biggeVpon the Maydenhead of our Affaires Wor. The chariest maid is prodigal enough If she unmask her beauty to the moon: Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes:33 The canker galls the infants of the spring Too oft before their buttons be disclos?: And in the morn and liquid dew of youth Contag Look, where he stands and glares! Want'st thou eyes attrial, madam? Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me. Nay, but the devil take mocking! Speak sad brow andtrue maid. --But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born. I brought high Hereford, if you call him so, But to the next high way, and there I left him. There in our letters do not well agree; Mine speak of seventy senators that died By their proscriptions, Cicero being one. Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is; I long to know the truth hereof at large. Sure I think so; And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it. What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:He hath been in unusual pleasure andSent forth great largess to your officers:This diamond he greets your wife withal,By the name of most kind hostess; and shut upIn measureless content. Proud Bolingbroke, I come To change blows with thee for our day of doom. SCENE 1KING JOHN's palaceEnter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, andothers,with CHATILLON KING JOHN. This speech of yours hath mov'd me, And shall perchance do good; but speak you on; You look as you had something more to say. Would I could answerThis comfort with the like! But I have wordsThat would be howl'd out in the desert air,Where hearing should not latch them. Now go to the door, and stay there till we call. I marry her! What? A customer! I prithee, bear somecharity to my wit; do not think it so unwholesome. How say you now? Is not your husband mad?ADRIANA. Where is the Duke my father with his power? KING RICHARD. Is there not charms By which the property of youth and maidhood May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo, Of some such thing? RODERIGO. Be't their comfortWe are coming thither: gracious England hathLent us good Siward and ten thousand men;An older and a better soldier noneThat Christendom gives out. I'll look no more, Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight Topple down headlong. For God's sake let us sit upon the ground And tell sad stories of the death of kings: How some have been depos'd, some slain in war, Some haunted by the ghosts they have depos'd, Some poison'd by their wives, some sleeping kill'd, All murder'd-for withi Good morrow, fair ones; pray you, if you know, Where in the purlieus of this forest stands A sheep-cote fenc'd about with olive trees? CELIA. But speak you this with asad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a rare carpenter? Come, in whatkey shall a man take you to go in the song? Claud. No mind that's honestBut in it shares some woe; though the main partPertains to you alone. The King, I can tell you, lookes for vs all: we must awayall to Night Falst. O my lord, When you went onward on this ended action, I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye, That lik'd, but had a rougher task in hand Than to drive liking to the name of love; But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts Have left their places vacant, So, to our tent;Where, ere we do repose us, we will writeTo Rome of our success. I will weepfor nothing, like Diana in the fountain, and I will do that whenyou are dispos'd to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and thatwhen thou are inclin'd to sleep. Exit LE BEAU Thus must I from the smoke into the smother; From tyrant Duke unto a tyrant brother. You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?ALL. Though this knavecame something saucily into the world before he was sent for, yetwas his mother fair, there was good sport at his making, and the whoreson must be acknowledged. If to his Men, I would currie withMaister Shallow, that no man could better command hisSeruants. ExitBASTARD ELINOR. Poor Tom, that eats the swimming frog, the toad, thetodpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in the fury of his heart,when the foul fiend rages, eats cow-dung for sallets, swallowsthe old rat and the ditch-dog, drinks the green mantle of the standing  If he should do so,He leaues his backe vnarm'd, the French, and WelchBaying him at the heeles: neuer feare that L. I dare assure thee that no enemy Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus; The gods defend him from so great a shame! When you do find him, or alive or dead, He will be found like Brutus, like himself. Ay, do you fear it? Then must I think you would not have it so. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you? Claud. The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite, And will not temporize with my entreaties; He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms. The rabble call him lord; And, as the world were now but to begin, Antiquity forgot, custom not known, The ratifiers and props of every word, They cry ?hoose we! Laertes shall be king!?Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds, ?aertes shall be  Though it be fit that Cassio have his place, For sure he fills it up with great ability, Yet, if you please to hold him off awhile, You shall by that perceive him and his means. No; I will not cast away my physic but on those thatare sick. I know 'tis from Cordelia, Who hath most fortunately been inform'd Of my obscured courseand [reads] 'shall find time From this enormous state, seeking to give Losses their remedies'All weary and o'erwatch'd, Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold This  --If any such be here,--As it were sin to doubt,--that love this paintingWherein you see me smear'd; if any fearLesser his person than an ill report;If any think brave death outweighs bad life,And that his country's dearer than himself;Let him alone, or I rather will subject me to the malice Of a diverted blood and bloody brother. By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I sayI am a magician. Well, push him out of doors; And let my officers of such a nature Make an extent upon his house and lands. We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee there'sno labouring i' th' winter. O, upon my knee, Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee, Thou virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom Forethought by heaven! BLANCH. But if he will not yeeld,Rebuke and dread correction waite on vs,And they shall do their Office. Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS Here comes the almanac of my true date. Therefore thy later vows against thy first Is in thyself rebellion to thyself; And better conquest never canst thou make Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts Against these giddy loose suggestions; Upon which better part our pray'rs come in, If tho My words fly up, my thoughts remain below: Words without thoughts never to heaven go. I marvel our mild husband Not met us on the way. This Dowglas? No, I know this face full well:A gallant Knight he was, his name was Blunt,Semblably furnish'd like the King himselfe Dow. Hear me, recreant! On thine allegiance, hear me! Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow Which we durst never yetand with strain'd pride To come between our sentence and our power, Which nor our nature nor our place can bear, Our potency made go They take it already vpon their confidence,that though I be but Prince of Wales, yet I am the Kingof Curtesie: telling me flatly I am no proud Iack like Falstaffe,but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a good boy, andwhen I am King of England, I shall comma Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits there; or, if he do not, it? no great matter there. Ourself, by monthly course, With reservation of an hundred knights, By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode Make with you by due turns. God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death The rather that you give his offspring life, Shadowing their right under your wings of war. Ere I would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen,I would change my humanity with a baboon. Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp, To guard a title that was rich before, To gild refined gold, to paint the lily, To throw a perfume on the violet, To smooth the ice, or add another hue Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light To seek the beaute No, no; when Fortune means to men most good, She looks upon them with a threat'ning eye. Why, how now? Do you speak in the sick tune? Beat. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not: They were given me by Claudio:?e receiv? them Of him that brought them. It boots thee not to be compassionate; After our sentence plaining comes too late. Pray heaven it be state matters, as you think, And no conception nor no jealous toy Concerning you. What, was I married to her in my dream? Or sleep I now, and think I hear all this? What error drives our eyes and ears amiss? Until I know this sure uncertainty, I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy. Go hang thy selfe in thine owne heire-apparant-Garters:If I be tane, Ile peach for this: and I haue notBallads made on all, and sung to filthy tunes, let a Cup ofSacke be my poyson: when a iest is so forward, & a footetoo, I hate it. I did neuer see such pittifull Rascals Falst. Poor prattler, how thou talk'st![Enter a Messenger. I will but spend a word here in the house And go with you. Let there be the same net spread for her, and that mustyour daughter and her gentlewomen carry. No, Ile giue thee thy due, thou hast paid al there Prin. O no, my Nephew must not know, Sir Richard,The liberall kinde offer of the King Ver. Haue you your wits?Know you what 'tis you speake? Falst. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders Of his affection to me. Enter Don Pedro, [John the] Bastard, Leonato, Friar [Francis],Claudio,Benedick, Hero, Beatrice, [and Attendants]. Good Father tell her, that she and my Aunt PercyShall follow in your Conduct speedily. Sir, I cannot tell:We must proceed as we do find the people. A Captaine? These Villaines will makethe word Captaine odious: Therefore Captaines hadneede looke to it Bard. I like this place, And willingly could waste my time in it. Hee a good Wit? hang him Baboone, his Wit isas thicke as Tewksburie Mustard: there is no more conceitin him, then is in a Mallet Dol. Let Vultures vil'de seize on his Lungs also:Where is the life that late I led, say they?Why heere it is, welcome those pleasant dayes. Double, double, toil and trouble;Fire, burn; and caldron, bubble. My valour's poisonedWith only suffering stain by him; for himShall fly out of itself: nor sleep nor sanctuary,Being naked, sick; nor fane nor Capitol,The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,Embarquements all of fury, shall lift upTheir rotten priv For mine own good,All causes shall give way: I am in bloodStep't in so far that, should I wade no more,Returning were as tedious as go o'er:Strange things I have in head, that will to hand;Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd. Stand you awhileapart, Confine yourself but in a patient list. To die,?o sleep;?To sleep! perchance to dream:?y, there? the rub; For in that sleep of death what dreams may come, When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, Must give us pause: there? the respect That makes calamity of so long life; For who would bear Go, some of you, knock at the abbey gate, And bid the Lady Abbess come to me, I will determine this before I stir. Exit Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE CORIN. And let them die that age and sullens have; For both hast thou, and both become the grave. Now Lords, if Heauen doth giue successefull endTo this Debate, that bleedeth at our doores,Wee will our Youth lead on to higher Fields,And draw no Swords, but what are sanctify'd. One woe doth tread upon another? heel, So fast they follow:?our sister? drown?, Laertes. No, sir; but you have that in your countenance which Iwould fain call master. Then live, Macduff: what need I fear of thee?But yet I'll make assurance double sure,And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live;That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,And sleep in spite of thunder. Your features! Lord warrant us! What features? TOUCHSTONE. London hath receiv'd, Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers. Why then, God's soldier be he!Had I as many sons as I have hairs,I would not wish them to a fairer death:And, so his knell is knoll'd. I am a Knight, Sir:And my Name is Colleuile of the Dale Falst. Well, march we on,To give obedience where 'tis truly ow'd:Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal;And with him pour we, in our country's purge,Each drop of us. Did these bones cost no more the breeding but to play at loggets with ?m? mine ache to think on?. Even she--Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero. A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch, Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter Who redeems nature from the general curse Which twain have brought her to. Tell thou the EarleThat the Lord Bardolfe doth attend him heere Por. O Goneril, You are not worth the dust which the rude wind Blows in your face! I fear your disposition. The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords In such a just and charitable war. I thinke hee's gone to hunt (my Lord) at Windsor King. Well said Wart, thouart a good Scab: hold, there is a Tester for thee Shal. Yea, that she did; but yet, for all that, an if she didnot hate him deadly, she would love him dearly. Nay my Lord, he call'd you Iacke, and said heewould cudgell you Fal. Yes, a dozen, and as many to the vantage as would storethe world they played for. O vassal! miscreant! [Lays his hand on his sword. Iago, look with care about the town, And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted. That's the worst Tidings that I heare ofyet Wor. Well, and the fire of Grace be not quite out ofthee now shalt thou be moued. I, but our valuation shall be such,That euery slight, and false-deriued Cause,Yea, euery idle, nice, and wanton Reason,Shall, to the King, taste of this Action:That were our Royall faiths, Martyrs in Loue,Wee shall be winnowed with so rough a winde,That Your purpos'd low correction Is such as basest and contemn'dest wretches For pilf'rings and most common trespasses Are punish'd with. Have not you love enough to bear with me When that rash humor which my mother gave me Makes me forgetful? BRUTUS. It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord the prologue. Marshal, demand of yonder champion The cause of his arrival here in arms; Ask him his name; and orderly proceed To swear him in the justice of his cause. So please you Exit. Whoever wins, on that side shall I lose: Assured loss before the match be play'd. What, man! 'Tis a night of revels, the gallants desireit. Well, God's above all, and there be souls mustbe saved, and there be souls must not be saved. That wee haue, that wee haue; in faith, Sir Iohn,wee haue: our watch-word was, Hem-Boyes. For that same word (Rebellion) did diuideThe action of their bodies, from their soules,And they did fight with queasinesse, constrain'dAs men drinke Potions; that their Weapons onlySeem'd on our side: but for their Spirits and Soules,This word (RebellionIs the single mantherefore blessed? No; as a wall'd town is more worthier than avillage, so is the forehead of a married man more honourable than thebare brow of a bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no skill, by so much is horn more precio I heard myself proclaim'd, And by the happy hollow of a tree Escap'd the hunt. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing To what I shall unfold. But reason with the fellow,Before you punish him, where he heard this;Lest you shall chance to whip your informationAnd beat the messenger who bids bewareOf what is to be dreaded. My Lord, this is a poore mad soule: and she sayesvp & downe the town, that her eldest son is like you. So please your Grace, my ancient; A man he is of honesty and trust. Gentle cousin, Let us go thank him, and encourage him; My father's rough and envious disposition Sticks me at heart. Brother of England, how may we content This widow lady? In her right we came; Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way, To our own vantage. Have you eyes? Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed, And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes? You cannot call it love; for at your age The hey-day in the blood is tame, it? humble, And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment Would step fr Scratching could not make it worse an 'twere such a faceas yours were. 'Tis but a little way that I can bring you, For I attend here, but I'll see you soon. Be York the next that must be bankrupt so! Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe. " Here will I stand till Caesar pass along, And as a suitor will I give him this. Little are we beholding to your love, And little look'd for at your helping hands. Then after to her father will I break, And the conclusion is, she shall be thine. For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth, Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech, To stir men's blood. Fortune, that arrant whore, Ne'er turns the key to th' poor. All that follow their noses are ledby their eyes but blind men, and there's not a nose amongtwenty but can smell him that's stinking. In my rights By me invested, he compeers the best. Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back know youthe reason? Gent. Now, by yond marble heaven, In the due reverence of a sacred vow Kneels. O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do,not knowing what they do! Bene. --What's the matter, you dissentious roguesThat, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,Make yourselves scabs?FIRST CITIZEN. Exeunt [Don Pedro, Claudio, and Leonato]. I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke, But here I am to speak what I do know. O, well flown, bird!i' th' clout, i' th' clout! Hewgh! Give the word. Note if your lady strain his entertainment With any strong or vehement importunity; Much will be seen in that. O pardon me (my Liege)But for my Teares,The most Impediments vnto my Speech,I had fore-stall'd this deere, and deepe Rebuke,Ere you (with greefe) had spoke, and I had heardThe course of it so farre. Go show your slaves how choleric you are, And make your bondmen tremble. Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot, Doth not thy embassage belong to me, And am I last that knows it? O, thou thinkest To serve me last, that I may longest keep Thy sorrow in my breast. The forestEnter ROSALIND and CELIA ROSALIND. No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man, Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no tide No, not that name was given me at the font But 'tis usurp'd. Stop in your wind, sir; tell me this, Ipray: Where have you left the money that I gave you?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I'll not be long behind; though I be old, I doubt not but to ride as fast as York; And never will I rise up from the ground Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn ofhim, Emilia, though he be thy husband. Enter the Prince marching, and Falstaffe meets him, playing on hisTrunchion like a Fife. I thank thee, Brutus, That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true. --I am half through;The one part suffer'd, the other will I do. What need the bridge much broader than the flood? The fairest grant is the necessity. Herein I teach youHow you shall bid God ild us for your pains,And thank us for your trouble. I dare swear he is no hypocrite, but prays from his heart. All's done, all's won, here breathles lies the king Hot. The Prince and Count Claudio, walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were thus muchoverheard by a man of mine: the Prince discovered to Claudio that he lovedmy niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it this night ina dance, and if he f Post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced. We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll diewith him. O, are you come, Iago? You have done well, That men must lay their murthers on your neck. Since that my beauty cannot please his eye, I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die. And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people. No more talking on't; let it be done: away, away!SECOND CITIZEN. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and fairs andmarket towns. Yonder they lie; the poor oldman, their father, making such pitiful dole over them that all the beholders take his part with weeping. I would not have your free and noble nature Out of self-bounty be abused. Iacke Falstaffe with my Familiars:Iohn with my Brothers and Sister: & SirIohn, with all Europe. But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear As all the metal in your shop will answer. It is a letter from mybrother that I have not all o'er-read; and for so much as I have perus'd, I find it not fit for your o'erlooking. To a rope's-end, sir; and to that end am I return'd. --Had he not resembledMy father as he slept, I had done't. How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair! GRATIANO. Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor; Most choice, forsaken; and most lov'd, despis'd! Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon. 141 Faith, if he be not rotten before he die,?s we have many pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in,?e will last you some eight year or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year. Ah, foul shrewd news! Beshrew thy very heart! I did not think to be so sad to-night As this hath made me. Sir, for your hurts, myself will be your surgeon. Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects; I am not Adriana, nor thy wife. The Count Melun, a noble lord of France, Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love Is much more general than these lines import. God's will, lieutenant, hold! You will be shamed forever. What since thou swor'st is sworn against thyself And may not be performed by thyself, For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss Is not amiss when it is truly done; And being not done, where doing tends to ill, The truth is then most done not doing it;  There? letters seal?: and my two schoolfellows,?Whom I will trust as I will adders fang?,?They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way And marshal me to knavery. [aside] An he had been a dog that should have howl'dthus, they would have hang'd him; and I pray God his bad voice bodeno mischief. Patience, good lady! Comfort, gentle Constance! CONSTANCE. A bloody deed!?lmost as bad, good mother, As kill a king and marry with his brother. Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome, No Rome of safety for Octavius yet; Hie hence, and tell him so. I dare not speak much further:But cruel are the times, when we are traitors,And do not know ourselves; when we hold rumourFrom what we fear, yet know not what we fear,But float upon a wild and violent seaEach way and move. O, these eclipses do portend these divisions! Fa, sol, la,mi. Let griefConvert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it. I'll never care what wickedness I do, If this man come to good. The circumstance considered, good my Lord,What euer Harry Percie then had said,To such a person, and in such a place,At such a time, with all the rest retold,May reasonably dye, and neuer riseTo do him wrong, or any way impeachWhat then he said, so he v What is it she does now? Look how she rubs her hands. We left the Prince (my Brother) here (my Liege)Who vndertooke to sit and watch by you King. Kill men i' the dark! Where be these bloody thieves? How silent is this town! Ho! Murther! Murther! What may you be? Are you of good or evil? LODOVICO. , I?l leave you till night: you are welcome to Elsinore. Hadst thou but shook thy head or made pause, When I spake darkly what I purposed, Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face, As bid me tell my tale in express words, Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off, And those thy fears might have wrought f Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs Dar'd once to touch a dust of England's ground? But then more 'why?'-why have they dar'd to march So many miles upon her peaceful bosom, Frighting her pale-fac'd villages with war And ostentation of despised ar A sibyl, that had number'd in the world The sun to course two hundred compasses, In her prophetic fury sew'd the work; The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk, And it was dyed in mummy which the skillful Conserved of maiden's hearts. He that perforce robs lions of their hearts May easily win a woman's. I have deserv'd no better entertainmentIn being Coriolanus. How now, Roderigo! I pray you, after the lieutenant; go. Come, sweet Audrey; We must be married or we must live in bawdry. How now! What noise is that? [Re-enter Ophelia, fantastically dressed with straws and flowers. If I could meet that fancy-monger, I wouldgive him some good counsel, for he seems to have the quotidian oflove upon him. O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell, But that I did proceed upon just grounds To this extremity. Enter ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS and DROMIO OFEPHESUSANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS. If then the Tree may be knowne by the Fruit, as the Fruitby the Tree, then peremptorily I speake it, there is Vertuein that Falstaffe: him keepe with, the rest banish. I will not do them wrong; I rather choose To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you, Than I will wrong such honorable men. I will do this, if I can bring it to any opportunity. Nay, you shall see mine Orchard: where, in anArbor we will eate a last yeares Pippin of my owne graffing,with a dish of Carrawayes, and so forth. O flye to Scotland,Till that the Nobles, and the armed Commons,Haue of their Puissance made a little taste Lady. Strong and fast'ned villain! Would he deny his letter? I never got him. I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd; But I shall in a more continuate time Strike off this score of absence. What trash is Rome, What rubbish, and what offal, when it serves For the base matter to illuminate So vile a thing as Caesar? But, O grief, Where hast thou led me? I perhaps speak this Before a willing bondman; then I know My answer must be made. I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing. I am given, sir, secretly to understand that youryounger brother, Orlando, hath a disposition to come in disguis'dagainst me to try a fall. You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not? SERVANT. Come, grin on me, and I will think thou smil'st, And buss thee as thy wife. Intended or committed was this fault? If on the first, how heinous e'er it be, To win thy after-love I pardon thee. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a moredelicate way than drowning. [To Goneril] Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue. But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh, To offer service to the Duke of Hereford; And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover What power the Duke of York had levied there; Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh. The sorrow that delivers us thus chang'dMakes you think so. Falstaffe, Haruey, Rossill, and Gads-hill, shallrobbe those men that wee haue already way-layde, yourselfe and I, wil not be there: and when they haue the booty,if you and I do not rob them, cut this head from myshoulders Prin. You may, indeed, say so; For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart. No, good my lord; let's fight with gentle words Till time lend friends, and friends their helpful swords. But who comes here? Enter BERKELEY NORTHUMBERLAND. Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead, Till of this flat a mountain you have made, To o?rtop old Pelion or the skyish head Of blue Olympus. The Fiend hath prickt downe Bardolph irrecouerable,and his Face is Lucifers Priuy-Kitchin, where heedoth nothing but rost Mault-Wormes: for the Boy,there is a good Angell about him, but the Deuill outbidshim too Prince. Would he not stumble? would he not fall down, Since pride must have a fall, and break the neck Of that proud man that did usurp his back? Forgiveness, horse! Why do I rail on thee, Since thou, created to be aw'd by man, Wast born to bear? I was not made Still am I call?;?nhand me, gentlemen;?[Breaking free from them. Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you; but that they call compliment is like th' encounter of twodog-apes; and when a man thanks me heartily, methinks have given him a penny, and he renders me the beggarly thanks. If that thou best a Roman, take it forth; I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart. Not know my voice! O time's extremity, Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue In seven short years that here my only son Knows not my feeble key of untun'd cares? Though now this grained face of mine be hid In sap-consuming winter's drizzled s Enter CELIA, with a writing ROSALIND. Some blessed power deliver us from hence!Enter a COURTEZANCOURTEZAN. What, my young master? O my gentle master! O my sweet master! O you memory Of old Sir Rowland! Why, what make you here? Why are you virtuous? Why do people love you? And wherefore are you gentle, strong, and valiant? Why would you be so fond to overcome Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that mytwo ears can witness. How now Lad? is the Winde in that Doore?Must we all march? Bard. For the time will come,That I shall make this Northerne Youth exchangeHis glorious Deedes for my Indignities:Percy is but my Factor, good my Lord,To engrosse vp glorious Deedes on my behalfe:And I will call him to so strict account,That he shall render  Is that true? Why then Othello and Desdemona returnagain to Venice. I do, truly, for thou swear'st to me thou arthonest; now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some hope thou didst feign. That euer this Fellow should haue fewer wordsthen a Parret, and yet the sonne of a Woman. Sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief; I am most unhappy in the loss of it. Desdemona comes: Re-enter Desdemona and Emilia. There's no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature. '"O then advance of yours that phraseless hand Whose white weighs down the airy scale of praise; Take all these similes to your own command, Hallowed with sighs that burning lungs did raise; What me your minister for you obeys Works under you; and to yo But, out, affection!All bond and privilege of nature, break!Let it be virtuous to be obstinate. Portia, what mean you? Wherefore rise you now? It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw cold morning. --Take him up:--Help, three o' the chiefest soldiers; I'll be one. I grant him bloody,Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sinThat has a name: but there's no bottom, none,In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,Your matrons, and your maids, could not fill upThe cistern ofWhere are they? Gone?--Let this pernicious hourStand aye accursed in the calendar!--Come in, without there![Enter Lennox. Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd Mine innocent child? Bora. 'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs And that my fortune runs against the bias. No, I warrant your Grace, you shall not entreat him toa second, that have so mightily persuaded him from a first. He is walk'd vp to the top of the hill, Ile go seekhim Fal. I thanke him, that he cuts me from my tale:For I professe not talking: Onely this,Let each man do his best. If I can close with him, I care not for his thrust Hostesse. She told me, not thinking I had been myself, that I was the Prince's jester,that I was duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest withsuch impossible conveyance upon me that I stood like a man at amark, with a whole army shooting at me. As they are sharing, the Prince and Poynes set vpon them. Thy substance, valued at the highest rate, Cannot amount unto a hundred marks; Therefore by law thou art condemn'd to die. 'Tis this slave,--Go whip him fore the people's eyes:--his raising;Nothing but his report. What I have done That might your nature, honour, and exception Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness. Let vs take any mans Horsses: The Lawes of Englandare at my command'ment. O sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,And Maiestie might neuer yet endureThe moody Frontier of a seruant brow,You haue good leaue to leaue vs. He is deformed, crooked, old, and sere, Ill-fac'd, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere; Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind; Stigmatical in making, worse in mind. What a fearful night is this! There's two or three of us have seen strange sights. Nay, do not think I flatter; For what advancement may I hope from thee, That no revenue hast, but thy good spirits, To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter?? No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp; And crook the pregnant hinges of t Enter Don Pedro, Leonato, Claudio. How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees? Thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft, And wit depends on dilatory time. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave By laboursome petition; and at last Upon his will I seal? my hard consent: I do beseech you, give him leave to go. Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue But moody and dull melancholy, Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair, And at her heels a huge infectious troop Of pale distemperatures and foes to life? In food, in sport, and life-preserving rest, To be distur Yonder he comes, and that arrant Malmesey-Nose Bardolfewith him. Further I say, and further will maintain Upon his bad life to make all this good, That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death, Suggest his soon-believing adversaries, And consequently, like a traitor coward, Sluic'd out his innocent soul through str Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,?Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve For that which thou hast done,?ust send thee hence With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;114 The bark is ready, and the wind at help, The associates tend, an You have holp to ravish your own daughters, andTo melt the city leads upon your pates;To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses,--MENENIUS. Welcome, my good friends! Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway? Volt. Now no way can I stray: Save back to England, an the world's my way. Of what kind should this cock come of? DUKE SENIOR. And by this hand I swear, That sways the earth this climate overlooks, Before we will lay down our just-borne arms, We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear, Or add a royal number to the dead, Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss Now, if you have a station in the file,Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it;And I will put that business in your bosoms,Whose execution takes your enemy off;Grapples you to the heart and love of us,Who wear our health but sickly in his life,Which in When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport, But creep in crannies when he hides his beams. But, to mythinking, he was very loath to lay his fingers off it. Advise the Duke whereyou are going, to a most festinate preparation. Stay for an answer to your embassy, Lest unadvis'd you stain your swords with blood; My Lord Chatillon may from England bring That right in peace which here we urge in war, And then we shall repent each drop of blood That hot rash haste so indirectly sh Sir, by your patience, I hold you but a subject of this war, Not as a brother. It likes us well; And at our more consider? time we?l read, Answer, and think upon this business. Another part of the same street, before the house of Brutus. Peace isa very apoplexy, lethargy; mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; agetter of more bastard children than war's a destroyer of men. SCENE 1The house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUSEnter ADRIANA, wife to ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, with LUCIANA, hersisterADRIANA. Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies? CLOWN. Enter Claudio, Don Pedro, and three or four with tapers,[followed by Musicians]. Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgement cannot cure. Michael Cassio, Lieutenant to the warlike Moor, Othello, Is come on shore; the Moor himself at sea, And is in full commission here for Cyprus. I will not stay to-night for all thetown; Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard. I do not so secure me in the error, But the main article I do approve In fearful sense. Cousin, I am too young to be your father, Though you are old enough to be my heir. Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much To think my poverty is treacherous. The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato. Good signior, take the stranger to my house, And with you take the chain, and bid my wife Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof. That villanous abhominable mis-leader ofYouth, Falstaffe, that old white-bearded Sathan Falst. Windsor CastleEnter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT BUSHY. Madam, it so fell out that certain players We o?r-raught on the way: of these we told him, And there did seem in him a kind of joy To hear of it: they are about the court, And, as I think, they have already order This night to play before him. Duncan is in his grave;After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;Treason has done his worst: nor steel, nor poison,Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,Can touch him further. I would they were barbarians,--as they are,Though in Rome litter'd,--not Romans,--as they are not,Though calv'd i' the porch o' the Capitol. Between the acres of the rye, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, These pretty country folks would lie, In the spring time, &c. I find thee apt; And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf, Wouldst thou not stir in this. Saint Withold footed thrice the 'old; He met the nightmare, and her nine fold; Bid her alight And her troth plight, And aroint thee, witch, aroint thee! Kent. I will hear Cassius and compare their reasons, When severally we hear them rendered. But ere we could arrive the point proposed, Caesar cried, "Help me, Cassius, or I sink! I, as Aeneas our great ancestor Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber Did I the tired Caesar. Give him heedful note; For I mine eyes will rivet to his face; And, after, we will both our judgments join In censure of his seeming. Arthur, that great forerunner of thy blood, Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart And fought the holy wars in Palestine, By this brave duke came early to his grave; And for amends to his posterity, At our importance hither is he come To spread his  If, Tullus,Not yet thou know'st me, and, seeing me, dost notThink me for the man I am, necessityCommands me name myself. Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child Than the sea-monster! Alb. --I pull in resolution; and beginTo doubt the equivocation of the fiendThat lies like truth. Why, right; you are i?the right; And so, without more circumstance at all, I hold it fit that we shake hands and part: You, as your business and desires shall point you,?For every man hath business and desire, Such as it is;?nd for my own poor part, Loo Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS,Senators, and Patricians. A whoreson, mad fellow? it was: whose do you think it was? Ham. And so near will I be That your best friends shall wish I had been further. A plague of all Cowards I say, and a Vengeancetoo, marry and Amen. Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter; Dearer than eyesight, space, and liberty; Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare; No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour; As much as child e'er lov'd, or father found; A love that mak I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings, As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts The worst of words. And then, sir, does he this,?e does?hat was I about to say??By the mass, I was about to say something:?here did I leave? Rey. Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks! Note notes, forsooth, and nothing! [Music. There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,As enemy to the people and his country:It shall be so. It was two ere I left him, and now the clock strikes one. Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?FIRST CITIZEN. Put him to choler straight: he hath been us'dEver to conquer, and to have his worth Of contradiction; being once chaf'd, he cannotBe rein'd again to temperance; then he speaksWhat's in his heart; and that is there which looksWith us to break his neck. On pain of death, no person be so bold Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists, Except the Marshal and such officers Appointed to direct these fair designs. Draw, you rascal! You come with letters against the King,and take Vanity the puppet's part against the royalty of herfather. Go, Faulconbridge; now hast thou thy desire: A landless knight makes thee a landed squire. Is it not strange, that Desire should so manyyeeres out-liue performance? Fal. I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son, His youngest sonand would not change that calling To be adopted heir to Frederick. I charge thee be not thou more griev'd than I am. All is the fear, and nothing is the love;As little is the wisdom, where the flightSo runs against all reason. Alas (sweet Wife) my Honor is at pawne,And but my going, nothing can redeeme it La. Leonato, stand I here? Is this the Prince, Is this the Prince's brother? Is this face Hero's? Are our eyes our own? Leon. Depress'd he is already, and depos'd 'Tis doubt he will be. Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia, The gods themselves throw incense. So the life that died with shame Lives in death with glorious fame. Your daughter here the princes left for dead, Let her awhile be secretly kept in, And publish it that she is dead indeed; Maintain a mourning ostentation, And on your family's old monument Hang mournful epitaphs, and do all rites That appertain unto a b Runs not this speech like iron through your blood? Claud. In my true heart I find she names my very deed of love; Only she comes too short, that I profess Myself an enemy to all other joys Which the most precious square of sense possesses, And find I am alone felicitate In your dear Highness' love. Good morrow: and heauen saue your Maiesty Prince. I pray you, turn the key, and keep our counsel. Yea, but you must not make the full show of this till youmay do it without controlment. And how like you this shepherd's life, MasterTouchstone? TOUCHSTONE. The Moor replies That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus And great affinity and that in wholesome wisdom He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you And needs no other suitor but his likings To take the safest occasion by the front To  Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us yet. O, who can hold a fire in his hand By thinking on the frosty Caucasus? Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite By bare imagination of a feast? Or wallow naked in December snow By thinking on fantastic summer's heat? O, no! the apprehension of the good Gives Sweet youth, I pray you chide a year together; I had rather hear you chide than this man woo. Now, this overdone, or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance, o?rweigh a whole theatre of others. Does it not, thinks? thee, stand me now upon,?He that hath kill? my king, and whor? my mother; Popp? in between the election and my hopes; Thrown out his angle for my proper life, And with such cozenage?s? not perfect conscience To quit him with this ar Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd, Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. You mustcall forth the watch that are their accusers. O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!Thou mayst revenge. What bastard doth not? Who will go with me? I will proclaim my name about the field. And you say you will have her when I bring her? ORLANDO. Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig, and recover the lost hair of another man. Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men;As hounds, and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,Shoughs, water-rugs, and demi-wolves are cleptAll by the name of dogs: the valu'd fileDistinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,The house-keeper, the hunter, everyThough in the trade of war I have slain men, Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience To do no contrived murther. You may think perchance that I think youare in love. Anhonest soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread;but God is to be worshipp'd; all men are not alike, alas, good neighbour! Leon. So befall my soul As this is false he burdens me withal!LUCIANA. Your Honours' pardon:I had rather have my wounds to heal againThan hear say how I got them. Come on, our queen; to-morrow must we part; Be merry, for our time of stay is short. My wretchedness unto a row of pins, They will talk of state, for every one doth so Against a change: woe is forerun with woe. If I have known her, You will say she did embrace me as a husband, And so extenuate the forehand sin. When I have pluck'd the rose, I cannot give it vital growth again, It must needs wither; I'll smell it on the tree. O, throw away the worser part of it, And live the purer with the other half. Will you dispatch ushere under this tree, or shall we go with you to your chapel? MARTEXT. Hapless, Aegeon, whom the fates have mark'd To bear the extremity of dire mishap! Now, trust me, were it not against our laws, Against my crown, my oath, my dignity, Which princes, would they, may not disannul, My soul should sue as advocate for thee. Our scene is alt'red from a serious thing, And now chang'd to 'The Beggar and the King. Now, by this light, were I to get again, Madam, I would not wish a better father. It was he That made the overture of thy treasons to us; Who is too good to pity thee. So much the worse, if your owne Rule be true Iohn. Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beatsher heart, tears her hair, prays, curses--'O sweet Benedick! Godgive me patience!' Leon. O, had it been a stranger, not my child, To smooth his fault I should have been more mild. Which of you two did dine with me to-day?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. How now, daughter and cousin! Are you crept hitherto see the wrestling? ROSALIND. His heart's his mouth:What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;And, being angry, does forget that everHe heard the name of death. I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like twogipsies on a horse. Villain, thou liest; for even her verywords Didst thou deliver to me on the mart. Now unto thy bones good night! Yearly will I do this rite. Why do you speak too, 'Why blame you me to love you?' ORLANDO. Come hither Harrie, sit thou by my bedde,And heare (I thinke, the very latest CounsellThat euer I shall breath: Heauen knowes, my Sonne)By what by-pathes, and indirect crook'd-wayesI met this Crowne: and I my selfe know wellHow troublesome it sate vpon mWhat need you five-and-twenty, ten, or five, To follow in a house where twice so many Have a command to tend you? Reg. Nor do not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently: for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say, whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. Once more, good-night: And when you are desirous to be bles?,106 I?l blessing beg of you. Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace; Now powers from home and discontents at home Meet in one line; and vast confusion waits, As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast, Th Let every man be master of his timeTill seven at night; to make societyThe sweeter welcome, we will keep ourselfTill supper time alone: while then, God be with you![Exeunt Lady Macbeth, Lords, Ladies, &c. Twice did he turn his back, and purpos'd so; But kindness, nobler ever than revenge, And nature, stronger than his just occasion, Made him give battle to the lioness, Who quickly fell before him; in which hurtling From miserable slumber I awak'd. That rises like the issue of a king,And wears upon his baby brow the roundAnd top of sovereignty?ALL. O Maiestie!When thou do'st pinch thy Bearer, thou do'st sitLike a rich Armor, worne in heat of day,That scald'st with safetie: by his Gates of breath,There lyes a dowlney feather, which stirres not:Did hee suspire, that light and weightlesse dowlnePerfo If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do your mother? commandment: if not, your pardon and my return shall be the end of my business. I were butlittle happy if I could say how much. Most certain of one mother, mighty king That is well knownand, as I think, one father; But for the certain knowledge of that truth I put you o'er to heaven and to my mother. Here I stand your slave, A poor, infirm, weak, and despis'd old man. That lord that counsell'd thee To give away thy land, Come place him here by me Do thou for him stand. That by proscription and bills of outlawry Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus Have put to death an hundred senators. Where is it? taken from vs, it is: a hundredvpon poore foure of vs Prince. There are no faces truerthan those that are so wash'd. This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen. I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle; And spur thee on with fun as many lies As may be halloa'd in thy treacherous ear From sun to sun. Content, and the argument shall be, thy runingaway Fal. Let me have a surgeon; I am cut to th' brains. Did you perceiveHe did solicit you in free contemptWhen he did need your loves; and do you thinkThat his contempt shall not be bruising to youWhen he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodiesNo heart among you? Or had you tongues to cryAgainst the rectorWhy, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,Will you undo yourselves?FIRST CITIZEN. Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,And thou oppos'd, being of no woman born,Yet I will try the last. Your virtues, gentle master, Are sanctified and holy traitors to you. You minion, you, are these your customers? Did this companion with the saffron face Revel and feast it at my house to-day, Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut, And I denied to enter in my house?ADRIANA. Could you not have told him,As you were lesson'd,--when he had no power,But was a petty servant to the state,He was your enemy; ever spake againstYour liberties, and the charters that you bearI' the body of the weal: and now, arrivingA place of potency aWhy, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man and boy, thirty years. The great man down, you mark his favourite flies, The poor advanc? makes friends of enemies; And hitherto doth love on fortune tend: For who not needs shall never lack a friend; And who in want a hollow friend doth try, Directly seasons him his enemy. Stand all apart, And show fair duty to his Majesty. My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul Whom fair befall in heaven 'mongst happy souls! May be a precedent and witness good That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood. Two things are to bedone: My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress I'll set her on; Myself the while to draw the Moor apart, And bring him jump when he may Cassio find Soliciting his wife. Let it doe something (my good Lord) that maydoe me good, and call it what you will Iohn. O good Horatio, I?l take the ghost? word for a thousand pound! Didst perceive? Hor. Beshrew your heart,(Faire Daughter) you doe draw my Spirits from me,With new lamenting ancient Ouer-sights. Did you and he consent in Cassio's death? OTHELLO. How long a time lies in one little word! Four lagging winters and four wanton springs End in a word: such is the breath of Kings. What Antony shall speak, I will protest He speaks by leave and by permission, And that we are contented Caesar shall Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies. Yet I am sworn, and I did purpose, boy, With this same very iron to burn them out. You would say so, master, if your garmentswere thin. Our holy lives must win a new world's crown, Which our profane hours here have thrown down. And, father Cardinal, I have heard you say That we shall see and know our friends in heaven; If that be true, I shall see my boy again; For since the birth of Cain, the first male child, To him that did but yesterday suspire, There was not such a gracio '--Let the VolscesPlough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll neverBe such a gosling to obey instinct; but stand,As if a man were author of himself,And knew no other kin. I thinke there's no man speakes better Welsh:Ile to Dinner Mort. How have I been behaved, that he might stick The small'st opinion on my least misuse? Re-enter Emilia with Iago. Master Gowre, shall I entreate you with mee todinner? Gow. Let us haste to hear it, And call the noblest to the audience. Why then your browne Bastard is your onelydrinke: for looke you Francis, your white Canuas doubletwill sulley. O proper stuff!This is the very painting of your fear:This is the air-drawn dagger which, you said,Led you to Duncan. On's brows: Menenius, he comes the third time home with the oakengarland. Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast; And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt? For sleeping England long time have I watch'd; Watching breeds leanness, leanness is an gaunt. What's that to thee? Why may I not demand Of thine affairs as well as thou of mine? BASTARD. I did not see you since you sent me hence, Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me. 'Tis not tenne yeeres gone,Since Richard, and Northumberland, great friends,Did feast together; and in two yeeres after,Were they at Warres. Give me the ocular proof; Or, by the worth of man's eternal soul, Thou hadst been better have been born a dog Than answer my waked wrath! IAGO. How now, nuncle? Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters! Lear. For since you loue me not,I will not loue my selfe. How stand I, then, That have a father kill?, a mother stain?, Excitements of my reason and my blood, And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see The imminent death of twenty thousand men That, for a fantasy and trick of fame, Go to their graves like be 'Blessing on your good heart, and so shee is bymy troth Fal. Well, see to live; I will not touch thine eye For all the treasure that thine uncle owes. Why, hark you![Trumpets and hautboys sounded, drums beaten, aand shoutingwithin. Who I? I defie thee: I was neuer call'd soin mine owne house before Falst. The people will remain uncertain whilst'Twixt you there's difference: but the fall of eitherMakes the survivor heir of all. 'Tis holy sport to be a little vain When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players; mark it. Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is Are clamorous groans which strike upon my heart, Which is the bell. How say you then; would heart of man once think it??But you?l be secret? Hor. We shall find a time, Audrey; patience, gentleAudrey. There is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for hisvalor, and death for his ambition. O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thoudidst know how many fathom deep I am in love! But it cannot besounded; my affection hath an unknown bottom, like the Bay ofPortugal. Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads, I like it well. It is a mindThat shall remain a poison where it is,Not poison any further. My lord, my answer is-'to Lancaster'; And I am come to seek that name in England; And I must find that title in your tongue Before I make reply to aught you say. If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have hishead on her shoulders for all Messina, as like him as she is. What now, my son! Have I not ever said How that ambitious Constance would not cease Till she had kindled France and all the world Upon the right and party of her son? This might have been prevented and made whole With very easy arguments of love, Which  To please the King, I did; to please myself I cannot do it; yet I know no cause Why I should welcome such a guest as grief, Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest As my sweet Richard. Here come I from our Princely Generall,To know your Griefes; to tell you, from his Grace,That hee will giue you Audience: and whereinIt shall appeare, that your demands are iust,You shall enioy them, euery thing set off,That might so much as thinke you ETherefore omit him not: blunt not his Loue,Nor loose the good aduantage of his Grace,By seeming cold, or carelesse of his will. There will she hide her To listen our propose. Laertes, I must commune with your grief, Or you deny me right. But, in the beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore? Ros. Much deserv'd on his part, and equally rememb'red by Don Pedro. It is but change, Titinius, for Octavius Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power, As Cassius' legions are by Antony. By my soul, nor I! And yet, to satisfy this good old man, I would bend under any heavy weight That he'll enjoin me to. If thou dost slander her and torture me, Never pray more; abandon all remorse; On horror's head horrors accumulate; Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed; For nothing canst thou to damnation add Greater than that. Friend,Art thou certain this is true? is't most certain?SECOND MESSENGER. To-morrow is Saint Valentine? day All in the morning bedtime, And I a maid at your window, To be your Valentine. It must be by his death, and, for my part, I know no personal cause to spurn at him, But for the general. But, O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes! By so much the moreshall I to-morrow be at the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for. If I affect it more,Then as your Honour, and as your Renowne,Let me no more from this Obedience rise,Which my most true, and inward duteous SpiritTeacheth this prostrate, and exteriour bending. A goodly house: the feast smells well; but IAppear not like a guest. Speak to him, ladies; see if you can move him. Quickly send (Be brief in't) to the castle; for my writ Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia. No, my good lord; for that is not forgot Which ne'er I did remember; to my knowledge, I never in my life did look on him. Twice for one step I'll groan, the way beingshort, And piece the way out with a heavy heart. Sweet Knight, I kisse thy Neaffe: what? wee haueseene the seuen Starres Dol. The murmuring surge That on th' unnumb'red idle pebble chafes Cannot be heard so high. Make all our trumpets speak; give them all breath,Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death. There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news;that is, the old Duke is banished by his younger brother the newDuke; and three or four loving lords have put themselves intovoluntary exile with him, whose lands and revenues enrich the new Duke; ther It is a damned and a bloody work; The graceless action of a heavy hand, If that it be the work of any hand. We learn no other but the confident tyrantKeeps still in Dunsinane, and will endureOur setting down before't. He's here in double trust:First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,Strong both against the deed: then, as his host,Who should against his murderer shut the door,Not bear the knife myself. Mischief, thou art afoot, Take thou what course thou wilt. Beside the charge, the shame, imprisonment, You have done wrong to this my honest friend; Who, but for staying on our controversy, Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day. Then there is no true lover in the forest, elsesighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazyfoot of Time as well as a clock. Enter [Edmund the] Bastard solus, [with a letter]. When we our betters see bearing our woes, We scarcely think our miseries our foes. Alas, my lord, Your wisdom is consumed in confidence. I will upon all hazards well believe Thou art my friend that know'st my tongue so well. Not that Adam that kept the Paradise, but that Adam that keeps the prison; he that goes in the calf's skin that was kill'd for the Prodigal; he that camebehind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you forsake your liberty. Why, he drinks you with facility your Dane dead drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he gives your Hollandera vomit ere the next pottle can be filled. Forty let it be,My Father and Glendower being both away,The powres of vs, may serue so great a day. Are you sick, Hubert? You look pale to-day; In sooth, I would you were a little sick, That I might sit all night and watch with you. I would thinke thee a most Princely hypocrite Prin. Marry, patience, Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen, And nothing of a man. Join with the present sickness that I have; And thy unkindness be like crooked age, To crop at once a too long withered flower. She cannot love, Nor take no shape nor project of affection, She is so self-endeared. For in a Theame so bloody fac'd, as this,Coniecture, Expectation, and SurmiseOf Aydes incertaine, should not be admitted Arch. I was born free as Caesar, so were you; We both have fed as well, and we can both Endure the winter's cold as well as he. Doulas, filthy Doulas: I haue giuen themaway to Bakers Wiues, and they haue made Boulters ofthem Hostesse. Go, signify as much, while here we march Upon the grassy carpet of this plain. Indeed! is't true? OTHELLO. Hero was in this manner accus'd, in this manner refus'd, and upon the grief of this suddenly died. I am an ass indeed; you may prove it by my long 'ears. Fair day, adieu! Which is the side that I must go withal? I am with both: each army hath a hand; And in their rage, I having hold of both, They whirl asunder and dismember me. And why rail I on this commodity? But for because he hath not woo'd me yet; Not that I have the power to clutch my hand When his fair angels would salute my palm, But for my hand, as unattempted yet, Like a poor beggar raileth on the rich. Weepe not, sweet Queene, for trickling tearesare vaine Hostesse. This, from thee, will I to mine leaue,As 'tis left to me. But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again, and the man inblood, they will out of their burrows, like conies after rain,and revel all with him. A good wit will make vse of any thing: I will turne diseasesto commodity. Go we to our tent:The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis timeIt should be look'd to: come. And live you yet? [To VALERIA]--O my sweet lady, pardon. Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain, But makes one pardon strong. The Money shall be pay'd backe againe with aduantage. One Angelo, a goldsmith; do you know him?ADRIANA. Boy! Lucius! Varro! Claudio! Sirs, awake! Claudio! LUCIUS. That's off, that's off;I would you rather had been silent. How far is it to Berkeley? And what stir Keeps good old York there with his men of war? PERCY. No had, my lord! Why, did you not provoke me? KING JOHN. [aside] What shall Cordelia speak? Love, and be silent. I could myselfTake up a brace o' the best of them; yea, the two tribunes. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God hath given you one face, and you make yourselves another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and nickname God? creatures, and make your wantonness your ignorance. What, has this thing appear? again to-night? Ber. Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wrong'dHero? Beat. Lovecools, friendship falls off, brothers divide. Now we have shown our power,Let us seem humbler after it is doneThan when it was a-doing. And Duncan's horses,--a thing most strange and certain,--Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would makeWar with mankind. On Wednesday next we solemnly set down Our coronation. Why heareye my Masters, was it for me to kill the Heire apparant?Should I turne vpon the true Prince? Why, thou knowestI am as valiant as Hercules: but beware Instinct, the Lionwill not touch the true Prince: Instinct is a great matter. Carlisle, this is your doom: Choose out some secret place, some reverend room, More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life; So as thou liv'st in peace, die free from strife; For though mine enemy thou hast ever been, High sparks of honour in thee have If it be honour in your wars to seemThe same you are not,--which for your best endsYou adopt your policy,--how is it less or worseThat it shall hold companionship in peaceWith honour as in war; since that to bothIt stands in like request?CORIOLANUS. ' My son Edgar! Had he a hand to write this? aheart and brain to breed it in? When came this to you? Who broughtit? Edm. What is the matter, uncle? Speak; Recover breath; tell us how near is danger, That we may arm us to encounter it. You have told them home,And, by my troth, you have cause. Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands, Unless thou bring'st them with thee. Let our old acquaintance be renewed: peraduentureI will with you to the Court Falst. Only get the learned writerto set down our excommunication, and meet me at the jail. I have a way to will their loves again; Bring them before me. He had, my lord; and that it was which caus'dOur swifter composition. Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt With modest warrant. O, my fear interprets! What, is he dead? OTHELLO. Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the statutes, he may stay him! Marry, not without the Prince be willing; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and itis an offence to stay a man against his will. But whate'er I be, Nor I, nor any man that but man is, With nothing shall be pleas'd till he be eas'd With being nothing. What I should deny (As this I would; ay, though thou didst produce My very character), I'ld turn it all To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practice; And thou must make a dullard of the world, If they not thought the profits of my death Were very pregna And well he might so do, For well I know he was unnatural. And yesterday the bird of night did sit Even at noonday upon the marketplace, Howling and shrieking. Here's a goodly tumult: Ile forsweare keepinghouse, before Ile be in these tirrits, and frights. Upon what bargain do you give it me?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. In Syracuse was I born, and wed Unto a woman, happy but for me, And by me, had not our hap been bad. Fare you well, Falstaffe: I, in my condition,Shall better speake of you, then you deserue. Put on two Leather Ierkins, and Aprons, andwaite vpon him at his Table, like Drawers Prin. Then here will be old Vtis: it will be an excellentstratagem 2. Tell me, how if my brother, Who, as you say, took pains to get this son, Had of your father claim'd this son for his? In sooth, good friend, your father might have kept This calf, bred from his cow, from all the world; In sooth, he might; then, if he we Sir, you have well deserv'd; If you do keep your promises in love But justly as you have exceeded all promise, Your mistress shall be happy. He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?MACBETH. If they speak but truth of her, These hands shall tear her. ' An if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach, 'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech. The reason that I gather he is mad, Besides this present instance of his rage, Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner Of his own doors being shut against his entrance. Straight let us seek, or straight we shall be sought; The Dauphin rages at our very heels. You strike my people, and your disorder'd rabble Make servants of their betters. Upon my knees, what doth your speech import? I understand a fury in your words, But not the words. I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me; Lend me thy handkerchief. It is the cowish terror of his spirit, That dares not undertake. In his behalfe, Ile empty all these Veines,And shed my deere blood drop by drop i'th dust,But I will lift the downfall MortimerAs high i'th Ayre, as this Vnthankfull King,As this Ingrate and Cankred Bullingbrooke Nor. Let that suffice, most Forcible Feeble Feeble. Exeunt KING, QUEEN, BUSHY, AUMERLE, GREEN, and BAGOT NORTHUMBERLAND. Poor naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are, That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm, How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides, Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en Too little care of this!  My boon I make it that you know me not Till time and I think meet. I did not then entreat to have her stay; It was your pleasure, and your own remorse; I was too young that time to value her, But now I know her. he hath won, that hath he fortified; So hot a speed with such advice dispos'd, Such temperate order in so fierce a cause, Doth want example; who hath read or heard Of any kindred action like to this? KING PHILIP. Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners; But yet, indeed, the smaller is his daughter; The other is daughter to the banish'd Duke, And here detain'd by her usurping uncle, To keep his daughter company; whose loves Are dearer than the natural bond o --This man, Aufidius,Was my beloved in Rome: yet thou behold'st!AUFIDIUS. O, would the deed were good! For now the devil, that told me I did well, Says that this deed is chronicled in hell. At sixteen years,When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he foughtBeyond the mark of others; our then dictator,Whom with all praise I point at, saw him fight,When with his Amazonian chin he droveThe bristled lips before him: he bestridAn o'erpress'd Roman an We pray you, for your own sake, to embrace yourown safety and give over this attempt. Enter EXTON, with attendants, hearing a coffin EXTON. You have heard of the news abroadI meanthe whisper'd ones, for they are yet but ear-kissing arguments? Edm. Against my soul's pure truth why labour you To make it wander in an unknown field? Are you a god? Would you create me new? Transform me, then, and to your pow'r I'll yield. May I be so converted and seewith these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not. We are not the first Who with best meaning have incurr'd the worst. O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty! The earth had not a hole to hide this deed. Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death; Who wrought it with the King, and who perform'd The bloody office of his timeless end. Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy thane,You do unbend your noble strength to thinkSo brainsickly of things. I will tell you;If you'll bestow a small,--of what you have little,--Patience awhile, you'll hear the belly's answer. Constant you are,But yet a woman: and for secrecie,No Lady closer. Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done't:Their hands and faces were all badg'd with blood;So were their daggers, which, unwip'd, we foundUpon their pillows:They star'd, and were distracted; no man's lifeWas to be trusted with them. Butwhat praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed, onethat in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch ofvery malice itself? IAGO. Why sir? Did I say you were an honest man? Settingmy Knight-hood, and my Souldiership aside, I hadlyed in my throat, if I had said so Ser. I'll notexpostulate with her, lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again. Yet doth he giue vs bold aduertisement,That with our small coniunction we should on,To see how Fortune is dispos'd to vs:For, as he writes, there is no quailing now,Because the King is certainely possestOf all our purposes. Thou wilt be like a lover presently And tire the hearer with a book of words. Will you sterner be Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops? Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, at a distance PHEBE. Do, child, go to it grandam, child; Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig. Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on theissue? IAGO. The King, your Father, is at Westminster,And there are twentie weake and wearied Postes,Come from the North: and as I came along,I met, and ouer-tooke a dozen Captaines,Bare-headed, sweating, knocking at the Tauernes,And asking euery one for Sir Iohn Fa I am the last of noble Edward's sons, Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first. You, Lord Arch-bishop,Whose Sea is by a Ciuill Peace maintain'd,Whose Beard, the Siluer Hand of Peace hath touch'd,Whose Learning, and good Letters, Peace hath tutor'd,Whose white Inuestments figure Innocence,The Doue, and very blessed Spirit of Peace. Enter ROBERT FAULCONBRIDGE and PHILIP, his bastard brother What men are you? BASTARD. [Enter Fortinbras, the English Ambassadors, and others. Will you go? ExeuntACT V. Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousandducats. I have a letter guessingly set down, Which came from one that's of a neutral heart, And not from one oppos'd. Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me; And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made. What say'st thou Kate? what wold'st thou haue with me? La. Enter, [masked,] Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, and Balthasar. I am (my Lord) but as my Betters are,That led me hither: had they beene rul'd by me,You should haue wonne them dearer then you haue Falst. Marry, sir, be better employed, and be nought awhile. But where's my fool? I have not seen him this two days. What saies Monsieurremorse? What sayes Sir Iohn Sacke and Sugar:Iacke? How agrees the Diuell and thee about thy Soule,that thou soldest him on Good-Friday last, for a Cup ofMadera, and a cold Capons legge? Prin. Are we all ready? What is now amiss That Caesar and his Senate must redress? METELLUS. My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd. Where shall we take a purse to morrow, Iacke? Fal. And that well mightAdvise him to a caution, to hold what distanceHis wisdom can provide. The Riuer hath thrice flow'd, no ebbe betweene:And the old folke (Times doting Chronicles)Say it did so, a little time beforeThat our great Grand-sire Edward sick'd, and dy'de War. I do not bid the Thunder-bearer shoot Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove. Enter Dogberry and his compartner [Verges], with the Watch. How subiect wee old men are to this vice of Lying?This same staru'd Iustice hath done nothing butprate to me of the wildenesse of his Youth, and theFeates hee hath done about Turnball-street, and euerythird word a Lye, duer pay'd to the hearer, then theTSay, didst thou speak with him? Know'st thou his mind?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. It will not let you eat, nor talk, nor sleep, And, could it work so much upon your shape As it hath much prevail'd on your condition, I should not know you, Brutus. There was a pretty redness in his lip, A little riper and more lusty red Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference Betwixt the constant red and mingled damask. Lo you, here she comes! [Enter Lady Macbeth, with a taper. She must change foryouth; when she is sated with his body, she will find the error ofher choice. Why bear you these rebukes, and answer not?ADRIANA. ' O indistinguish'd space of woman's will! A plot upon her virtuous husband's life, And the exchange my brother! Here in the sands Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified Of murtherous lechers; and in the mature time With this ungracious paper strike thI learn in this letter that Don Pedro of Arragon comesthis night to Messina. Heere comes my Seruant Trauers, whom I sentOn Tuesday last, to listen after Newes. God save your good worships! Marciusis coming home; he has more cause to be proud. Messala, I have here received letters That young Octavius and Mark Antony Come down upon us with a mighty power, Bending their expedition toward Philippi. There is none of my uncle's marks upon you; he taughtme how to know a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sureyou are not prisoner. Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! That bed, that womb, That mettle, that self mould, that fashion'd thee, Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest, Yet art thou slain in him. Sweet remembrancer!--Now, good digestion wait on appetite,And health on both!LENNOX. But till that time I do receive your offer? love like love, And will not wrong it. What a fool art thou, A ramping fool, to brag and stamp and swear Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave, Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side, Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend Upon thy stars, thy fortune, and thy strength, And dost thou  Exeunt [all but Gloucester and Kent]. I will go wash;And when my face is fair you shall perceiveWhether I blush or no: howbeit, I thank you;--I mean to stride your steed; and at all timesTo undercrest your good additionTo the fairness of my power. 102 Look here upon this picture, and on this,?The counterfeit presentment of two brothers. Show me the place; I love to cope him in these sullen fits, For then he's full of matter. But I remember nowI am in this earthly world; where to do harmIs often laudable; to do good sometimeAccounted dangerous folly: why then, alas,Do I put up that womanly defence,To say I have done no harm?--What are these faces?[Enter Murderers. What shrill-voic'd suppliant makes this eager cry? DUCHESS. Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur? Hath love in thy old blood no living fire? Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one, Were as seven vials of his sacred blood, Or seven fair branches springing from one root. Lights, lights, lights! [Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio. ?oratio, when thou shalt have overlooked this, give these fellows some means to the king: they have letters for him. But to the quick o?the ulcer:?Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake To show yourself your father? son in deed More than in words? Laer. Nay, 'tis for me to be patient; I am in adversity. Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous. By all the blood that ever fury breath'd, The youth says well. I cannot believe that in her; she's full of mostblest condition. Call up her father, Rouse him, make after him, poison his delight, Proclaim him in the streets, incense her kinsmen, And, though he in a fertile climate dwell, Plague him with flies. There is a cliff, whose high and bending head Looks fearfully in the confined deep. In the base court? Come down? Down, court! down, king! For night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing. Let's away, And get our jewels and our wealth together; Devise the fittest time and safest way To hide us from pursuit that will be made After my flight. I trust we shall, If not fill up the measure of her will, Yet in some measure satisfy her so That we shall stop her exclamation. Caesar's better parts Shall be crown'd in Brutus. There thou shouldst be;By this great clatter, one of greatest noteSeems bruited. What, foure? thou sayd'st but two, euen now Falst. Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues; Let every eye negotiate for itself And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood. That I am guiltless of your father? death, And am most sensibly in grief for it, It shall as level to your judgment pierce As day does to your eye. Not a whit: I lacke some of thy instinct Falst. But, good lieutenant, is your general wived? CASSIO. This is a slight unmeritable man, Meet to be sent on errands. Went'st not thou to her for purse ofducats?ADRIANA. How, how, Cordelia? Mend your speech a little, Lest it may mar your fortunes. Why, very well then; you must not think then that I am drunk. O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier, And says, if ladies be but young and fair, They have the gift to know it; and in his brain, Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd With observation, the which Why, horns; which such as you are fain to bebeholding to your wives for; but he comes armed in his fortune, andprevents the slander of his wife. My Lord, I will steepe this Letter in Sack, and make himeate it Prin. Here, take this Purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues Have humbled to all strokes. If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee To bind our loves up in a holy band; For others say thou dost deserve, and I Believe it better than reportingly. But for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year. Behold, his eye, As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth Controlling majesty. Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural dealing!When I desir'd their leave that I might pity him, they took fromme the use of mine own house, charg'd me on pain of perpetual displeasure neither to speak of him, entreat for him, norany way sustai What should the wars do with these jigging fools? Companion, hence! CASSIUS. Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea? Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye Stray'd his affection in unlawful love? A sin prevailing much in youthful men Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing. [Aside] His words do take possession of my bosom. O that there were some virtue in my tears, That might relieve you! KING JOHN. Good-night; and better healthAttend his majesty!LADY MACBETH. But to stand stained with Trauaile, and sweatingwith desire to see him, thinking of nothing else, puttingall affayres in obliuion, as if there were nothing els to beedone, but to see him Pist. Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome,And occupations perish!CORIOLANUS. These promises are faire, the parties sure,And our induction full of prosperous hope Hotsp. Then but forbear your food a little while, Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn, And give it food. O, that a man might know The end of this day's business ere it come! But it sufficeth that the day will end, And then the end is known. Prethee let him alone, we shall haue more anon Falst. Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods makeme honest. What Stuffe wilt thou haue a Kirtle of? I shallreceiue Money on Thursday: thou shalt haue a Cappeto morrow. And after this let Caesar seat him sure; For we will shake him, or worse days endure. Full oft 'tis seen Our means secure us, and our mere defects Prove our commodities. But didst thou hear without wondering how thy nameshould be hang'd and carved upon these trees? ROSALIND. To do this is within the compass of man's wit, andtherefore I will attempt the doing it. Belike then, my Appetite was not Princelygot: for (in troth) I do now remember the poore Creature,Small Beere. Farewell therefore Hero! Enter Benedick [unmasked]. Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rustthem. 24 Have you your father? leave? What says Polonius? Pol. The single and peculiar life is bound, With all the strength and armour of the mind, To keep itself from ?oyance; but much more That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest The lives of many. Come in, Titinius! Exit Lucius. Fie, fie, fie!This is the way to kindle, not to quench. Now by my seat's right royal majesty, Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son, This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders. I have no great devotion to the deed; And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons. As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashionbequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns, and, as thou say'st, charged my brother, on his blessing, to breed me well; andthere begins my sadness. Doubt not the commoners, for whom we stand,But they, upon their ancient malice will forget,With the least cause these his new honours; whichThat he will give them make as little questionAs he is proud to do't. [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave. I have livedTo see inherited my very wishes,And the buildings of my fancy; onlyThere's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but Our Rome will cast upon thee. Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his ma jesty, it is the breathing time of day with me: let the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the king hold his purpose, I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my shame  Sir, this report of his Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy That he could nothing do but wish and beg Your sudden coming o?r, to play with him. How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her own defence? 2 Clown. Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning To raze one title of your honour out. The conference was sadly borne;they have the truth of this from Hero; they seem to pity the lady. By long and vehement suit I was seduc'd To make room for him in my husband's bed. Pardon, Caesar! Caesar, pardon! As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber. You sooth'd not, therefore hurt not: but your people,I love them as they weigh. I was not borne to yeeld, thou haughty Scot,And thou shalt finde a King that will reuengeLords Staffords death. You are ambitiousfor poor knaves' caps and legs; you wear out a good wholesomeforenoon in hearing a cause between an orange-wife and afosset-seller, and then rejourn the controversy of threepenceto a second day of audience. '"O pardon me in that my boast is true! The accident which brought me to her eye Upon the moment did her force subdue, And now she would the caged cloister fly. O, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry? for look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died within ? two hours. O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet! Thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords In our own proper entrails. To whose hands have you sent the lunatic King? Speak. If I be not asham'd of my Souldiers, I am asowc't-Gurnet: I haue mis-vs'd the Kings Presse damnably. Giue that, which gaue thee life, vnto the Wormes:Plucke downe my Officers, breake my Decrees;For now a time is come, to mocke at Forme. Sirra Carrier: What time do you mean to cometo London? 2. Enter, fighting, Soldiers of both armies; then Brutus,young Cato,Lucilius, and others. When a wise man gives thee better counsel, give me mineagain. I maychance have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me becauseI have railed so long against marriage. Not so hot! In his own grace he doth exalt himself More than in your addition. Exeunt YORK and QUEEN BUSHY. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing; Confederate season, else no creature seeing;91 Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected, With Hecate? ban thrice blasted, thrice infected, Thy natural magic and dire property On wholesome li Doth the man of Warre, stay all night sir? Shal. My brother hath a daughter, Almost the copy of my child that's dead, And she alone is heir to both of us. By the Masse Lad, thou say'st true, it is like weeshall haue good trading that way. Re-enter Othello and Attendants. What tidings can you tell me of my lord? CASSIO. And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touchof holy bread. He sups tonight with a harlotry, and thither will I go to him. What make you from home? How is it with you, my most fair Bianca? I'faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house. What would you have, friend? whence are you? Here's no place foryou: pray go to the door. Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen, In the remembrance of a weeping queen. Hath she forsook so many noble matches, Her father and her country and her friends, To be call'd whore? Would it not make one weep? DESDEMONA. O ye gods, Render me worthy of this noble wife! Knocking within. At thy choice, then:To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour Than thou of them. He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt, When time shall call him home from banishment, Whether our kinsman come to see his friends. There's no moevalour in that Poynes, than in a wilde Ducke Prin. If thou dost As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way To noble fortunes. You may my glories and my state depose, But not my griefs; still am I king of those. Sorrow and grief of heart Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man; Yet he is come. You must not put another scandal on him, That he is open to incontinency; That? not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly That they may seem the taints of liberty; The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind; A savageness in unreclaimed blood, Of ge Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well What I have said to you. Gives him the letter. Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool? Osw. --You gods! I prate,And the most noble mother of the world Leave unsaluted: sink, my knee, i' the earth;[Kneels. Bid my Lieutenant Peto meete me at the Townes end Bard. O, relationToo nice, and yet too true!MALCOLM. We have been up and down to seek thee; for we arehigh-proof melancholy, and would fain have it beaten away. Marry, your manhood mew! Enter a Gentleman. But these cannot I command to any utterance of harmony; I have not the skill. He is attended with a desperate train, And what they may incense him to, being apt To have his ear abus'd, wisdom bids fear. You have among you kill'd a sweet and innocent lady. He takes her by the palm; ay, well said,whisper. And what confederacy have you with the traitors Late footed in the kingdom? Reg. Even soAs with a man by his own alms empoison'd,And with his charity slain. [To Kent and Edgar] Friends of my soul, you twain Rule in this realm, and the gor'd state sustain. Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your greatness back?SECOND GUARD. What faults he made before the last, I thinkMight have found easy fines: but there to endWhere he was to begin, and give awayThe benefit of our levies, answering usWith our own charge: making a treaty whereThere was a yielding. But, soft, my door is lock'd; go bid them let us in. Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old gentleman's saying. [To the Son] Cousin, you know what you have to do. Be thou assur?, if words be made of breath, And breath of life, I have no life to breathe What thou hast said to me. Lead me my Lord? I do not need your helpe;And heauen forbid a shallow scratch should driueThe Prince of Wales from such a field as this,Where stain'd Nobility lyes troden on,And Rebels Armes triumph in massacres Ioh. And if it doe, take it for thy labour: and if itmake twentie, take them all, Ile answere the Coynage. Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind, Which then blew bitterly against our faces, Awak'd the sleeping rheum, and so by chance Did grace our hollow parting with a tear. No, I protest, I know not the contents; Phebe did write it. But (my most Noble Lord of Westmerland)I take not on me here as a Physician,Nor doe I, as an Enemie to Peace,Troope in the Throngs of Militarie men:But rather shew a while like fearefull Warre,To dyet ranke Mindes, sicke of happinesse,And purge th' obstrMy lord, he hath importun? me with love In honourable fashion. It is more then for some (my Lord) it is for all: allI haue, he hath eaten me out of house and home; hee hathput all my substance into that fat belly of his: but I willhaue some of it out againe, or I will ride thee o' Nights,like the Mare Falst. O, yes, and soundless too, For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony, And very wisely threat before you sting. When time shall serve, let but the herald cry, And I'll appear again. That Geffrey was thy elder brother born, And this his son; England was Geffrey's right, And this is Geffrey's. Her father loved me, oft invited me, Still question'd me the story of my life From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes, That I have pass'd. Those happy smilets That play'd on her ripe lip seem'd not to know What guests were in her eyes, which parted thence As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen, Th?imperial jointress to this warlike state, Have we, as ?were with a defeated joy,?With an auspicious and one dropping eye, With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage, In equal scale weighing delight Hear me a little; For I have only been silent so long, And given way unto this course of fortune, By noting of the lady. [DUKE FREDERICK goes apart] LE BEAU. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet: This to your ma jesty; this to the queen. Well then, once in my dayes Ile be a mad-cap Fal. Sir, Ancient Pistoll is below, and wouldspeake with you Dol. False of heart, light of ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth,fox in stealth, wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion inprey. In bed, he slept not for my urging it; At board, he fed not for my urging it; Alone, it was the subject of my theme; In company, I often glanced it; Still did I tell him it was vile and bad. O my soul's joy! If after every tempest come such calms, May the winds blow till they have waken'd death! And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas Olympus-high, and duck again as low As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die, 'Twere now to be mo ' Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot Unlikely wonders: how these vain weak nails May tear a passage through the flinty ribs Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls; And, for they cannot, die in their own pride. Goe Captaine, and deliuer to the ArmieThis newes of Peace: let them haue pay, and part:I know, it will well please them. Setting aside his high blood's royalty, And let him be no kinsman to my liege, I do defy him, and I spit at him, Call him a slanderous coward and a villain; Which to maintain, I would allow him odds And meet him, were I tied to run afoot Even to the fro Strike up, pipers! Dance. Rais'd only, that the weaker sort may wishGood Marcius home again. My suit to her Is that she will to virtuous Desdemona Procure me some access. Reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without meritand lost without deserving. Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart, Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest. I pr?thee, take thy fingers from my throat; For, though I am not splenetive and rash, Yet have I in me something dangerous, Which let thy wiseness fear: away thy hand! King. That is another simple sin in you: to bring theewes and the rams together, and to offer to get your living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a bell-wether, and tobetray a she-lamb of a twelvemonth to crooked-pated, old, cuckoldlyram, out of all Following the fliers at the very heels,With them he enters; who, upon the sudden,Clapp'd-to their gates: he is himself alone,To answer all the city. Most Mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin; For thou thyself hast been a libertine, As sensual as the brutish sting itself; And all th' embossed sores and headed evils That thou with license of free foot hast caught Wouldst thou disgorge into the general Lady, will you walk a bout with your friend? Hero. Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come Before the expiration of thy time, In braving arms against thy sovereign. Do you findsome occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or tainting his discipline, or from what other course youplease, which the time shall more favorably minister. "They met me in the day of success; and I havelearned by the perfectest report they have more in them thanmortal knowledge. Good my lord, pardon me; Though I am bound to every act of duty, I am not bound to that all slaves are free to. But what meane ITo speake so true at first? My Office isTo noyse abroad, that Harry Monmouth fellVnder the Wrath of Noble Hotspurres Sword:And that the King, before the Dowglas RageStoop'd his Annointed head, as low as death. Infirmity doth still neglect all office Whereto our health is bound. It gives me wonder great as my content To see you here before me. O Caesar, read mine first, for mine's a suit That touches Caesar nearer. Have you no song, forester, for thispurpose? LORD. Goe, call the Earles of Surrey, and of Warwick:But ere they come, bid them ore-reade these Letters,And well consider of them: make good speed. This oyly Rascall is knowne as well as Poules:goe call him forth Peto. No, no, no: not so: I did not thinke, thou wastwithin hearing Prince. No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even The natural fool of fortune. If I do prove her haggard, Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings, I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind To prey at fortune. Get thee a wife, get thee a wife! There is no staff more reverent than one tipp'd with horn. You have been talk? of since your travel much, And that in Hamlet? hearing, for a quality Wherein they say you shine: your sum of parts Did not together pluck such envy from him As did that one; and that, in my regard, Of the unworthiest siege. Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss As seal to this indenture of my love: That to my home I will no more return Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France, Together with that pale, that white-fac'd shore, Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roarin I speak butbrotherly of him; but should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I mustblush and weep, and thou must look pale and wonder. Exit Lady Macduff, crying Murder, and pursued by theMurderers. Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it was the very day that young Hamlet was born,?e that is mad, and sent into England. Setting thy woman-hood aside, thou art a beastto say otherwise Host. Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave. She bids you,On the wanton Rushes lay you downe,And rest your gentle Head vpon her Lappe,And she will sing the Song that pleaseth you,And on your Eye-lids Crowne the God of Sleepe,Charming your blood with pleasing heauinesse;Making such difference betwi O fool, I shall go mad! Exeunt Lear, Gloucester, Kent, and Fool. No, no! 'Tis all men's office to speak patience To those that wring under the load of sorrow, But no man's virtue nor sufficiency To be so moral when he shall endure The like himself. Saue thy Grace, King Hall, my Royall Hall Pist. Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from him lastnight. Repentat idle times as thou mayst, and so farewell. There is two more called then your number:you must haue but foure heere sir, and so I pray you go inwith me to dinner Fal. Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself. Enter BUSHY Bushy, what news? BUSHY. Re-enter Desdemona, attended. But, I beseech you, If't be your pleasure and most wise consent, As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter, At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night, Transported with no worse nor better guard But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier, To t You have now the good advantage of the night. have ungently, Brutus, Stole from my bed; and yesternight at supper You suddenly arose and walk'd about, Musing and sighing, with your arms across; And when I ask'd you what the matter was, You stared upon me with ungentle looks. Who gives anything to poor Tom? whom the foul fiend hathled through fire and through flame, through ford and whirlpool,o'er bog and quagmire; that hath laid knives under his pillow and halters in his pew, set ratsbane by his porridge, made himproud of h I now perceive it was not altogether your brother's evil disposition made him seek his death; but a provoking merit,set awork by a reproveable badness in himself. O, soft, sir, hold you still; I'll fetch my sister to get her good will. Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world, It were a shame to let this land by lease; But for thy world enjoying but this land, Is it not more than shame to shame it so? Landlord of England art thou now, not King. The DUKE'S palaceEnter DUKE FREDERICK, with LORDS FREDERICK. I, that nowRefus'd most princely gifts, am bound to beg Of my lord general. My Father, my Vnckle, and my selfe,Did giue him that same Royaltie he weares:And when he was not sixe and twentie strong,Sicke in the Worlds regard, wretched, and low,A poore vnminded Out-law, sneaking home,My Father gaue him welcome to the shore:And wheI Care not for my spirits, if my legs were notweary. The weird sisters, hand in hand,Posters of the sea and land,Thus do go about, about:Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,And thrice again, to make up nine:--Peace!--the charm's wound up. O, God defend my soul from such deep sin! Shall I seem crest-fallen in my father's sight? Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height Before this outdar'd dastard? Ere my tongue Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong Or sound so base a parle, my te Thither will I with you; for little office Will the hateful commons perform for us, Except Eke curs to tear us all to pieces. Rage must be withstood: Give me his gage-lions make leopards tame. It seemes then, that the tidings of this broile,Brake off our businesse for the Holy land West. And to poor we,Thine enmity's most capital: thou barr'st usOur prayers to the gods, which is a comfortThat all but we enjoy; for how can we,Alas, how can we for our country pray,Whereto we are bound,--together with thy victory,Whereto we are bound? alac Heavens, deal so still! Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man, That slaves your ordinance, that will not see Because he does not feel, feel your pow'r quickly; So distribution should undo excess, And each man have enough. Whither wilt thou lead me? speak! I?l go no further. Murder most foul, as in the best it is; But this most foul, strange, and unnatural. You are, and do not know't:The spring, the head, the fountain of your bloodIs stopp'd; the very source of it is stopp'd. Truly, Sir, all that I live by is with theawl; I meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's matters, butwith awl. Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor; Which, till my infant fortune comes to years, Stands for my bounty. Call thyself sister, sweet, for I amthee; Thee will I love, and with thee lead my life; Thou hast no husband yet, nor I no wife. Now sir, this grantedas it is a most pregnant and unforced positionwho stands so eminently in the degree ofthis fortune as Cassio does? A knave very voluble; no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil andhumane seeming, for the be I take your Princely word, for these redresses Iohn. With bills on their necks: 'Be it known unto all menby these presents' LE BEAU. What handkerchief? Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona, That which so often you did bid me steal. But Hal, I prythee trouble me no more with vanity, I woldthou and I knew, where a Commodity of good nameswere to be bought: an olde Lord of the Councell ratedme the other day in the street about you sir; but I mark'dhim not, and yet hee talk'd very wiselNow call we our High Court of Parliament,And let vs choose such Limbes of Noble Counsaile,That the great Body of our State may goIn equall ranke, with the best gouern'd Nation,That Warre, or Peace, or both at once may beAs things acquainted and familiar The King is not himself, but basely led By flatterers; and what they will inform, Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us an, That will the King severely prosecute 'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs. You will compel me then to read the will? Then make a ring about the corse of Caesar, And let me show you him that made the will. Nay, that's impossible; she may wear her heart out first. Wilt thou forsake thy fortune, Bequeath thy land to him and follow me? I am a soldier and now bound to France. Thepurpose you vndertake is dangerous, the Friends you haue namedvncertaine, the Time it selfe vnsorted, and your wholePlot too light, for the counterpoize of so great an Opposition. So call the field to rest, and let's away, To part the glories of this happy day. Come neighbour Mugges, wee'll call vpthe Gentlemen, they will along with company, for theyhaue great charge. When he is gone, I would on great occasion speak with you. 1597KING JOHNby William ShakespeareDRAMATIS PERSONAE KING JOHN PRINCE HENRY, his son ARTHUR, DUKE OF BRITAINE, son of Geffrey, late Duke of Britaine, the elder brother of King John EARL OF PEMBROKE EARL OF ESSEX EARL OF SALISBURY LORD BIGOT HUBERT DE BURTill you compound whose right is worthiest, We for the worthiest hold the right from both. O plague right well prevented! So will you say when you have seen the Sequel. O Villaine, thy Lippes are scarce wip'd, sincethou drunk'st last Falst. Bear with me, cousin, for I was amaz'd Under the tide; but now I breathe again Aloft the flood, and can give audience To any tongue, speak it of what it will. But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall? PANDULPH. I do not think so; since he went into France I have been in continual practice: I shall win at the odds. How ill this taper burns! Ha, who comes here? I think it is the weakness of mine eyes That shapes this monstrous apparition. Who comes here? Enter CORIN CORIN. God pardon all oaths that are broke to me! God keep all vows unbroke are made to thee! Make me, that nothing have, with nothing griev'd, And thou with all pleas'd, that hast an achiev'd. Alas, poor Duke! the task he undertakes Is numb'ring sands and drinking oceans dry. But your reason was not substantial, why there is no time to recover. They do discharge their shot of courtesy Our friends at least. Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE How now, sir, is your merry humour alter'd? As you love strokes, so jest with me again. Give me your hand;Conduct me to mine host: we love him highly,And shall continue our graces towards him. You have told me shehath received them and returned me expectations and comforts ofsudden respect and acquaintance; but I find none. Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears Do scald like molten lead. I could anger her to the heart: shee was then aBona-Roba. Your answer, sir, is enigmatical; But, for my will, my will is, your good will May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd In the state of honourable marriage; In which, good friar, I shall desire your help. Let every soldier hew him down a bough,And bear't before him; thereby shall we shadowThe numbers of our host, and make discoveryErr in report of us. Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say That Time comes stealing on by night and day? If 'a be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way, Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?Re-enter LUCIANA with a purseADRIANA. Why, Hal, 'tis my Vocation Hal: 'Tis no sin for aman to labour in his Vocation Pointz. But words are words; I never yet did hear That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear. Sweet Earle, diuorce not wisedom from your Honor Mor. He shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we asmerry as the day is long. But 'tis strange:And oftentimes to win us to our harm,The instruments of darkness tell us truths;Win us with honest trifles, to betray'sIn deepest consequence. For mine own part,When I said banish him, I said 'twas pity. Fie, Cousin Percy, how you crosse my Father Hotsp. I am sorry For your displeasure, but all will sure be well. You know your office, brother: You must be father to your brother's daughter, And give her to young Claudio. What a full fortune does the thick-lips owe, If he can carry't thus! IAGO. O gentle lady,'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:The repetition, in a woman's ear,Would murder as it fell. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm. Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep; Farewell to thee too, Strato. My way is now to hie home to his house, And tell his wife that, being lunatic, He rush'd into my house and took perforce My ring away. Or to be naked with her friend in bed An hour or more, not meaning any harm? OTHELLO. Why should we, in the compass of a pale, Keep law and form and due proportion, Showing, as in a model, our firm estate, When our sea-walled garden, the whole land, Is full of weeds; her fairest flowers chok'd up, Her fruit trees all unprun'd, her hedges You see (my good Wenches) how men ofMerit are sought after: the vndeseruer may sleepe, whenthe man of Action is call'd on. At first the infant, Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms; Then the whining school-boy, with his satchel And shining morning face, creeping like snail Unwillingly to school. It is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accus'd, thePrince and Claudio mightily abus'd, and Don John is the author ofall, who is fled and gone. Sirs, cover the while; theDuke will drink under this tree. Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame! The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail, And you are stay? for. A man that all his time Hath founded his good fortunes on your love, Shared dangers with you OTHELLO. O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth, That I am meek and gentle with these butchers! Thou art the ruins of the noblest man That ever lived in the tide of times. And this man Is now become a god, and Cassius is A wretched creature and must bend his body If Caesar carelessly but nod on him. A very reverent body; ay, such a one as a man may not speak of without he say 'Sir-reverence. If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,I may be heard, I would crave a word or two;The which shall turn you to no further harmThan so much loss of time. Go on, And see wheer Brutus be alive or dead, And bring us word unto Octavius' tent How everything is chanced. What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be sofond, but it is not in my virtue to amend it. Re-enter Messala, with Brutus, young Cato, and others. Lord, I couldnot endure a husband with a beard on his face. O, they take the part of a better wrestler thanmyself. I pray you, one of you question yond man If he for gold will give us any food; I faint almost to death. To solemnize this day the glorious sun Stays in his course and plays the alchemist, Turning with splendour of his precious eye The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold. And Fellow's, Soldiers, Friends,Better consider what you haue to do,That I that haue not well the gift of Tongue,Can lift your blood vp with perswasion. O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs All from her father? death. I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a morecomfortable sort; if my son were my husband, I should freelierrejoice in that absence wherein he won honour than in theembracements of his bed where he would show most love. My Lord, Sir Iohn Vmfreuill turn'd me backeWith ioyfull tydings; and (being better hors'd)Out-rod me. Thy loue isworth a Million: thou ow'st me thy loue Host. Doe me no slander, Dowglas: by my Life,And I dare well maintaine it with my Life,If well-respected Honor bid me on,I hold as little counsaile with weake feare,As you, my Lord, or any Scot that this day liues. When I am cold he heats me with beating; when I am warm he cools me with beating. But till that time Come not thou near me; and when that time comes, Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not; As till that time I shall not pity thee. You are now within a foot Of th' extreme verge. O Lear, Lear, Lear! Beat at this gate that let thy folly in [Strikes his head. But, Roderigo, if thou hastthat in thee indeed, which I have greater reason to believe nowthan ever, I mean purpose, courage, and valor, this night show it;if thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona, take mefrom this world with treachery and d I pray you dissuade him from her; she isno equal for his birth. Know you how much the people may be moved By that which he will utter? BRUTUS. SCENE 1A hall in the DUKE'S palaceEnter the DUKE OF EPHESUS, AEGEON, the Merchantof Syracuse, GAOLER, OFFICERS, and other ATTENDANTSAEGEON. I feare thou art another counterfeit:And yet infaith thou bear'st thee like a King:But mine I am sure thou art, whoere thou be,And thus I win thee. What did thy song bode, lady? Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan, And die in music. O, a good wish upon you! You will try in time, indespite of a fall. [aside] Then poor Cordelia! And yet not so; since I am sure my love's More richer than my tongue. O! grief hath chang'd me since you saw me last; And careful hours with time's deformed hand Have written strange defeatures in my face. 'My mistress, sir,' quoth I; 'Hang up thy mistress; I know not thy mistress; out on thy mistress. Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot; Some airy devil hovers in the sky And pours down mischief. [Enter, with drum and colours, Malcolm, old Siward, Macduff, &c. There was a time when all the body's membersRebell'd against the belly; thus accus'd it:--That only like a gulf it did remainI' the midst o' the body, idle and unactive,Still cupboarding the viand, never bearingLike labour with the rest; where th' other For Lord Hamlet, Believe so much in him, that he is young; And with a larger tether may he walk Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia, Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,?Not of that dye which their investments show,36 But mere implorators o Look, I draw a sword against conspirators; When think you that the sword goes up again? Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds Be well avenged, or till another Caesar Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors. O thou dull Moor! That handkerchief thou speak'st of I found by fortune and did give my husband, For often with a solemn earnestness, More than indeed belong'd to such a trifle, He begg'd of me to steal it. No, Leonato, I never tempted her with word too large, But, as a brother to his sister, show'd Bashful sincerity and comely love. If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the blood and basenessof our natures would conduct us to most preposterousconclusions. And, I think, if my breast had not been made of faith, and my heart of steel, She had transform'd me to a curtal dog, and made me turn i' th'wheel. Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come. And I'll keep him so That he shall not offend your Majesty. Of thy deep duty more impression showThan that of common sons. Your royal presences be rul'd by me: Do like the mutines of Jerusalem, Be friends awhile, and both conjointly bend Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town. But if these, As I am sure they do, bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen, What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress? What other bond Than secret Romans that have s Return with her? Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter To this detested groom. If you go on thus, you will kill yourself, And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief Against yourself. Nor no man else! All's cheerless, dark, and deadly. Enter Iohn of Lancaster, Gloucester, and Clarence. If your mind dislike anything, obey it: I will forestall their repair hither, and say you are not fit. When beggars die, there are no comets seen; The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes. [Offers Kent his cap. Noble lady!--Come, go with us; speak fair: you may salve so,Not what is dangerous present, but the lossOf what is past. 1601AS YOU LIKE ITby William ShakespeareDRAMATIS PERSONAE. When thou clovest thy crowni' th' middle and gav'st away both parts, thou bor'st thine asson thy back o'er the dirt. But, masters, here's money for you; and the general so likes your music, that he desires you, for love's sake, to make no more noise with it. ' Sweet are the uses of adversity, Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, Wears yet a precious jewel in his head; And this our life, exempt from public haunt, Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, Sermons in stones, and good in everythinGet you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and layit to your heart. That can we not; but he that proves the King, To him will we prove loyal. By the world, I think my wife be honest, and think she is not; I think that thou art just, and think thou art not. Not that I think you did not love your father; But that I know love is begun by time, And that I see, in passages of proof,131 Time qualifies the spark and fire of it. So our virtuesLie in the interpretation of the time:And power, unto itself most commendable,Hath not a tomb so evident as a cheerTo extol what it hath done. Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, bloody, with two orthree soldiers. Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you; For lately we were bound as you are now. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. A monk, I tell you; a resolved villain, Whose bowels suddenly burst out. Wellsaid! thou look'st cheerly; and I'll be with thee quickly. Can I not say 'I thank you'? My better parts Are all thrown down; and that which here stands up Is but a quintain, a mere lifeless block. About his neck A green and gilded snake had wreath'd itself, Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd The opening of his mouth; but suddenly, Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself, And with indented glides did slip away Into a bush; under which bush' There shall your swords and lances arbitrate The swelling difference of your settled hate; Since we can not atone you, we shall see Justice design the victor's chivalry. Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash To be a party in this injury. Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse That which appears in proper nakedness? Friar. Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his sondearly? By this kind of chase I should hate him, for my father hatedhis father dearly; yet I hate not Orlando. Witness, you ever-burning lights above, You elements that clip us round about, Witness that here Iago doth give up The execution of his wit, hands, heart, To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command, And to obey shall be in me remorse, What bloody bus Enter Brabantio, Roderigo, and Officers with torches and weapons. Many years of happy days befall My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege! MOWBRAY. Then comes my fit again: I had else been perfect;Whole as the marble, founded as the rock;As broad and general as the casing air:But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound inTo saucy doubts and fears. How? the Prince is a Iacke, a Sneake-Cuppe:and if hee were heere, I would cudgell him like a Dogge,if hee would say so. Even now we hous'd him in the abbey here, And now he's there, past thought of human reason. I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it being so proper. Where the dead body is bestow?, my lord, We cannot get from him. As I was then aduised by my learned Councel, inthe lawes of this Land-seruice, I did not come Iust. What do you think Of marching to Philippi presently? CASSIUS. Why answer not the double majesties This friendly treaty of our threat'ned town? KING PHILIP. With a thief to the gallows; for though he go assoftly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there. Neither my husband nor the slave return'd That in such haste I sent to seek his master! Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock. Your vessels and your spells provide,Your charms, and everything beside. ' Thus did she an hour together transshape thy particular virtues. I warrant it grieves my husband As if the cause were his. Wemust have your doublet and hose pluck'd over your head, and showthe world what the bird hath done to her own nest. 'Yet cam'st thou to a morsel of this feast,Having fully dined before. Let no man speak again To alter this, for counsel is but vain. Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit Behind the arras hearing something stir, Whips out his rapier, cries ? rat, a rat!?And in this brainish apprehension, kills The unseen good old man. That blood which ow'd the breadth of all this isle Three foot of it doth hold-bad world the while! This must not be thus borne: this will break out To all our sorrows, and ere long I doubt. I heard thee speak me a speech once,?ut it was never acted; or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleased not the million, ?was caviare to the general; but it was,?s I received it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in t Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet andhose? What did he when thou saw'st him? What said he? How look'dhe? Wherein went he? What makes he here? Did he ask for me? Where remains he? How parted he with thee? And when shalt thou seehim again? Ans I am abused, and my relief Must be to loathe her. Let? do?, I pray; and I this morning know Where we shall find him most conveniently. And so have I a noble father lost; A sister driven into desperate terms,?Whose worth, if praises may go back again, Stood challenger on mount of all the age For her perfections:?ut my revenge will come. I am yetUnknown to woman; never was forsworn;Scarcely have coveted what was mine own;At no time broke my faith; would not betrayThe devil to his fellow; and delightNo less in truth than life: my first false speakingWas this upon myself:--what I am truly O Conspiracy, Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night, When evils are most free? O, then, by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, Conspiracy; Hide it in smiles and affability; For if thou path,  Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well. My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorant Of what hath mov'd you. Enter [Oswald the] Steward. Enter [Leonato's] brother [Antonio], Hero, Beatrice, Margaret, Ursula, [the ladies wearing masks]. Sometimes am I king; Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar, And so I am. In the meantime let me be that I am, andseek not to alter me. O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up: Keep my need up, and faith is trodden down! KING JOHN. Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness; sluttishness may come hereafter. Nay, an I tell you that, I'll ne'er look you i' the face again; but those that understood him smiled at one anotherand shook their heads; but for mine own part, it was Greek to me. Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie? TOUCHSTONE. Come, sing; andyou that will not, hold your tongues. A fine woman! afair woman! a sweet woman! IAGO. Do it not with poison, strangle her in her bed, even thebed she hath contaminated. O, what pity is it That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land As we this garden! We at time of year Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit trees, Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood, With too much riches it confound itself; Had he done so to  Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of;and would you yet I were merrier? Unless you could teach me toforget a banished father, you must not learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure. ' An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend nobody. No contraries hold more antipathy Than I and such a knave. Come; Iwould your cambric were sensible as your finger, that you mightleave pricking it for pity. A Hue and Cry hathfollowed certaine men vnto this house Prince. To you, Lord Governor, Remains the censure of this hellish villain, The time, the place, the torture. Yes, he is dead: how wilt thou do for father?SON. Can sick men play so nicely with their names? GAUNT. Withdraw with us; and let the trumpets sound While we return these dukes what we decree. Plate sin with gold, And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks; Arm it in rags, a pygmy's straw does pierce it. Go too,I say he shall haue no wrong: Looke about Dauy. Re-enter Titinius with Messala. Are you all resolved to give your voices? But that's no matter,the greater part carries it. Would not my lords return to me again After they heard young Arthur was alive? BASTARD. Sonnes to Henry the Fourth, & brethren to Henry 5. Nay, I hear nothing: his mother and his wifeHear nothing from him. They call drinking deepe, dyingScarlet; and when you breath in your watering, thenthey cry hem, and bid you play it off. In Parthia did I take thee prisoner, And then I swore thee, saving of thy life, That whatsoever I did bid thee do, Thou shouldst attempt it. Search every acre in the high-grown field And bring him to our eye. Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath; For all in vain comes counsel to his ear. She is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then; forI have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt ofunhappiness and wak'd herself with laughing. Let's to the Capitol:--would half my wealthWould buy this for a lie!SICINIUS. But then I saw no harm, and then I heard Each syllable that breath made up between them. We hear not of him, neither need we fear him;His remedies are tame i' the present peaceAnd quietness of the people, which beforeWere in wild hurry. I am a scribbled form drawn with a pen Upon a parchment, and against this fire Do I shrink up. Your silence most offends me, and to be merry bestbecomes you, for out o' question you were born in a merry hour. Enter PANDULPH KING PHILIP. I jest not; I willmake it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Something that hath a reference to my state: No longer Celia, but Aliena. "--Then fly, false thanes,And mingle with the English epicures:The mind I sway by, and the heart I bear,Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear. We meet, like men, that had forgot to speake War. And, England, if my love thou hold?t at aught,?As my great power thereof may give thee sense, Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red After the Danish sword, and thy free awe Pays homage to us,?hou mayst not coldly set Our sovereign process; which im 
'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?' 'The pig' quoth I 'is burn'd'; 'My gold!' quoth he. --Come, put mine armour on; give me my staff:--Seyton, send out. You look pale and gaze And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder To see the strange impatience of the heavens. For certain, sir, he is not: I have a fileOf all the gentry: there is Siward's sonAnd many unrough youths, that even nowProtest their first of manhood. Wilt thou suffer them To make a rescue?OFFICER. Indeed, your drums, being beaten, will cry out; And so shall you, being beaten. Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear And leave you to attend him. What shall I say? To safeguard thine own life The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death. Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,With twenty trenched gashes on his head;The least a death to nature. I muse my motherDoes not approve me further, who was wontTo call them woollen vassals, things createdTo buy and sell with groats; to show bare headsIn congregations, to yawn, be still, and wonder,When one but of my ordinance stood upTo speak of peace or Westeale as in a Castle, cocksure: we haue the receit of Fernseede,we walke inuisible Cham. My mother dead! Re-enter HUBERT HUBERT. What,shall we be merry? shall we haue a Play extempory Prin. The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be notwooed in good time. Though I could scape shot-free at London, I fearthe shot heere: here's no scoring, but vpon the pate. Thou art a boil, A plague sore, an embossed carbuncle In my corrupted blood. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light! Sport and repose lock from me day and night! To desperation turn my trust and hope! An anchor? cheer in prison be my scope! Each opposite that blanks the face of joy Meet what I would have well, and it destro With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enoughin his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world--if 'a could get her good will. Indeed, my lord, The melancholy Jaques grieves at that; And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you. Fare-thee-well!These evils thou repeat'st upon thyselfHave banish'd me from Scotland. But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more. Enter Cassio and certain Officers with torches. Our fraughtage, sir, I have convey'd aboard; and I have bought The oil, the balsamum, and aqua-vitx. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak? meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables. I pledge your Grace:And if you knew what paines I haue bestow'd,To breede this present Peace,You would drinke freely: but my loue to ye,Shall shew it selfe more openly hereafter Bish. Ay, that's the way; Dull not device by coldness and delay. Was this ambition? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And sure he is an honorable man. O perjured woman! Thou dost stone my heart, And makest me call what I intend to do A murther, which I thought a sacrifice. Please you to march;And four shall quickly draw out my command,Which men are best inclin'd. You urg'd me as a judge; but I had rather You would have bid me argue like a father. Great business must be wrought ere noon:Upon the corner of the moonThere hangs a vaporous drop profound;I'll catch it ere it come to ground:And that, distill'd by magic sleights,Shall raise such artificial sprites,As, by the strength of their illusion,ShIf he say so, may his pernicious soul Rot half a grain a day! He lies to the heart. My heart's subdued Even to the very quality of my lord. Away, my friends! New flight, And happy newness, that intends old right. Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises, Which is a great way growing on the south, Weighing the youthful season of the year. There is something in the wind, that wecannot get in. Why, what's the matter? BRABANTIO. Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong For the whole world. I lov? Ophelia; forty thousand brothers Could not, with all their quantity of love, Make up my sum. Avoid then, fiend! What tell'st thou meof supping? Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress; I conjure thee to leave me and be gone. There is no fear in him-let him not die, For he will live and laugh at this hereafter. If he break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fearand trembling. I thank you, general,But cannot make my heart consent to takeA bribe to pay my sword: I do refuse it;And stand upon my common part with thoseThat have beheld the doing. But how shal we part with them in setting forth? Poyn. It is too late; the life of all his blood Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain. Consider this:--he has been bred i' the warsSince 'a could draw a sword, and is ill school'dIn bolted language; meal and bran togetherHe throws without distinction. Which dreams, indeed, are ambition; for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream. You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,With most admir'd disorder. She isat the court, and no less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter; and never two ladies loved as they do. Exeunt DUKE, train, and LE BEAU CELIA. That I'll straight do; and, knowing myself again, Repair to the senate-house. I told him you were coming: His answer was, 'The worse. No, no (my Lord) note this: the King is wearieOf daintie, and such picking Grieuances:For hee hath found, to end one doubt by Death,Reuiues two greater in the Heires of Life. I am he that is so love-shak'd; I pray you tell meyour remedy. They will scarcelybelieve this without trial. I beseech your Maiesty make vp,Least your retirement do amaze your friends King. But in these casesWe still have judgement here; that we but teachBloody instructions, which being taught, returnTo plague the inventor: this even-handed justiceCommends the ingredients of our poison'd chaliceTo our own lips. Your statue spouting blood in many pipes, In which so many smiling Romans bathed, Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood, and that great men shall press For tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance. O mysweet Harry sayes she, how many hast thou kill'd to day?Giue my Roane horse a drench (sayes hee) and answeres,some fourteene, an houre after: a trifle, a trifle. England, impatient of your just demands, Hath put himself in arms. Not all the dukes in wat'rish Burgundy Can buy this unpriz'd precious maid of me. I am glad to see you well: Horatio,?r I do forget myself. Murder, as hating what himself hath done, Doth lay it open to urge on revenge. I shall between this and supper tell you most strange thingsfrom Rome; all tending to the good of their adversaries. So then the Volsces stand but as at first;Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make roadUpon's again. If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell whoshould down. Name not the god, thou boy of tears,--CORIOLANUS. Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd? GREEN. Alas, my lord, what may you mean by that? OTHELLO. A servingman, proud in heart and mind; that curl'd myhair, wore gloves in my cap; serv'd the lust of my mistress' heartand did the act of darkness with her; swore as many oaths as Ispake words, and broke them in the sweet face of heaven; one that slept  Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,Who is the sink o' the body,--MENENIUS. Enter Sir John the Bastard and Conrade, his companion. Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on thewindy side of care. God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is exceedingheavy. He knows not what he says; and vain is it That we present us to him. I pray you do not fall in love with me, For I am falser than vows made in wine; Besides, I like you not. The king, sir, hath wager? with him six Barbary horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very respo If I should pay your worship those again, Perchance you will not bear them patiently. What say these young ones? What say you, my niece? BLANCH. Is he not jealous? DESDEMONA. She must have change, she must; therefore put moneyin thy purse. Are yet two Romans living such as these? The last of all the Romans, fare thee well! It is impossible that ever Rome Should breed thy fellow. [Seats herself on theground] Here I and sorrows sit; Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it. Brutus, what shall be done? If this be known, Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back, For I will slay myself. The rest is labor, which is not us'd for you:I'll be myself the harbinger, and make joyfulThe hearing of my wife with your approach;So, humbly take my leave. '--O, a kissLong as my exile, sweet as my revenge;Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kissI carried from thee, dear; and my true lipHath virgin'd it e'er since. I kneel'd before him;'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise'; dismissed meThus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,He sent in writing after me; what he would not,Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions:So that all hope is vain,Unless his noble m O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell, If thou canst mutine in a matron? bones, To flaming youth let virtue be as wax, And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame When the compulsive ardour gives the charge, Since frost itself as actively doth bu I have some marks of yours upon my pate, Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders, But not a thousand marks between you both. Bless thee, good man's son,from the foul fiend! Five fiends have been in poor Tom at once:of lust, as Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu,of stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids I see a good amendment of life in thee: FromPraying, to Purse-taking Fal. Who was the Thane lives yet;But under heavy judgement bears that lifeWhich he deserves to lose. If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son, As you have whisper'd faithfully you were, And as mine eye doth his effigies witness Most truly limn'd and living in your face, Be truly welcome hither. SCENE 1A street before a prioryEnter SECOND MERCHANT and ANGELOANGELO. I tell thee, fellow,Thy general is my lover: I have beenThe book of his good acts, whence men have readHis fame unparallel'd, haply amplified;For I have ever verified my friends,--Of whom he's chief,--with all the size that verityWould without lapsing suBoth which we doubt not, but your MaiestieShall soone enioy King. Will you put out mine eyes, These eyes that never did nor never shall So much as frown on you? HUBERT. My gracious Lord, my Father,This sleepe is sound indeede: this is a sleepe,That from this Golden Rigoll hath diuorc'dSo many English Kings. Oh yet, for heauens sake, go not to these Warrs;The Time was (Father) when you broke your word,When you were more endeer'd to it, then now,When your owne Percy, when my heart-deereHarry,Threw many a Northward looke, to see his FatherBring vp his Powres: Contending with the fretful elements; Bids the wind blow the earth into the sea, Or swell the curled waters 'bove the main, That things might change or cease; tears his white hair, Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage, Catch in their fury and m Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot; My life thou shalt command, but not my shame: The one my duty owes; but my fair name, Despite of death, that lives upon my grave To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have. '"When thou impressest, what are precepts worth Of stale example? When thou wilt inflame, How coldly those impediments stand forth, Of wealth, of filial fear, law, kindred, fame! Love's arms are peace, 'gainst rule, 'gainst sense, 'gainstshame. ' Well, this was Signior Benedick thatsaid so. [Exeunt Leonato and Messenger. For do but stand upon the foaming shore, The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds; The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane, Seems to cast water on the burning bear, And quench the guards of the ever-fixed pole. So had you need; I scarce can speak to thank you for myself. Had I so lauish of my presence beene,So common hackney'd in the eyes of men,So stale and cheape to vulgar Company;Opinion, that did helpe me to the Crowne,Had still kept loyall to possession,And left me in reputelesse banishment,A fellow of no marke, norStay but a little: for my Cloud of DignitieIs held from falling, with so weake a winde,That it will quickly drop: my Day is dimme. Ay, my good lord; your royal preparationMakes us hear something. And I could sing, would weeping do me good, And never borrow any tear of thee. [Enter Banquo, preceeded by Fleance with a torch. I tellhim we shall stay here at the least a month, and he heartly prays some occasion may detain us longer. But at this hour the house doth keep itself; There's none within. Would you would bear your fortune like a man! OTHELLO. Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy. Prince Iohn, your Sonne, doth kisse your Graces Hand:Mowbray, the Bishop, Scroope, Hastings, and all,Are brought to the Correction of your Law. Then was that Noble WorcesterToo soone ta'ne prisoner: and that furious Scot,(The bloody Dowglas) whose well-labouring swordHad three times slaine th' appearance of the King,Gan vaile his stomacke, and did grace the shameOf those that turn'd their backe For mine own partno offense to the general, nor anyman of qualityI hope to be saved. Watch you tonight; for the command, I'll lay't uponyou. Have you heard of no likely wars toward 'twixt the twoDukes of Cornwall and Albany? Edm. But soft, who haue we heere?Did you not tell me this Fat man was dead? Prin. --Yes, yes, yes; the Senate has lettersfrom the general, wherein he gives my son the whole name of thewar: he hath in this action outdone his former deeds doubly. Ah sirra (quoth-a) we shall doe nothing but eate,and make good cheere, and praise heauen for the merrieyeere: when flesh is cheape, and Females deere, and lustieLads rome heere, and there: so merrily, and euer amongso merrily Fal. I would the state of time had first beene whole,Ere he by sicknesse had beene visited:His health was neuer better worth then now Hotsp. Our hostess keeps her state; but, in best time,We will require her welcome. Let but the commons hear this testament Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds And dip their napkins in his sacred blood, Yea, beg a hair of him for memory, And, dying, mention it within their wills, Bequ The other motive, Why to a public count I might not go, Is the great love the general gender bear him; Who, dipping all his faults in their affection, Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone, Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows, Too Let us after him,Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome:It is a peerless kinsman. I do beseech your Majesty impute his words To wayward sickliness and age in him. 89 This world is not for aye; nor ?is not strange That even our loves should with our fortunes change; For ?is a question left us yet to prove, Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love. Come, where is this young gallant that is so desirousto lie with his mother earth? ORLANDO. [Exit an Attendant. Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world one manbut he will wear his cap with suspicion? Shall I never see a bachelor of threescore again? Go to, i' faith! An thou wiltneeds thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it and sighaway Sundays. 'Tis not in thee To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train, To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes, And, in conclusion, to oppose the bolt Against my coming in. At this time We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend; And the best quarrels, in the heat, are curs'd By those that feel their sharpness. Will your Grace command me any service to the world'send? I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that youcan devise to send me on; I will fetch you a toothpicker now fromthe furthest inch of Asia; bring you the length of Prester John's f Nay, he struck so plainly I could to well feel his blows; and withal so doubtfully that I could scarce understand them. But I can tell you that of late this Duke Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece, Grounded upon no other argument But that the people praise her for her virtues And pity her for her good father's sake; And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the la To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength, Gives, in your weakness, strength unto your foe, And so your follies fight against yourself. If you come slack of former services, You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer. As I! foh! fie upon thee! IAGO. Therefore I will even take sixpence in earnest of the berrord and lead his apes into hell. But, for the seventh cause: how did you find thequarrel on the seventh cause? TOUCHSTONE. Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke ofHereford? If it be so, out with it boldly, man; Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him. If she find him not, To England send him; or confine him where Your wisdom best shall think. '"Now all these hearts that do on mine depend, Feeling it break, with bleeding groans they pine, And supplicant their sighs to your extend, To leave the batt'ry that you make 'gainst mine, Lending soft audience to my sweet design, And credent soul to th Well, thou hast call'd her to a reck'ning many atime and oft Prin. Your brother too must die; consent you, Lepidus? LEPIDUS. By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause To curse the fair proceedings of this day. I would the gods had nothing else to doBut to confirm my curses! Could I meet 'emBut once a day, it would unclog my heartOf what lies heavy to't. O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul!ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. But what talk we of fatherswhen there is such a man as Orlando? CELIA. But it is doubtful yet Whether Caesar will come forth today or no, For he is superstitious grown of late, Quite from the main opinion he held once Of fantasy, of dreams, and ceremonies. True is it that we have seen better days, And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church, And sat at good men's feasts, and wip'd our eyes Of drops that sacred pity hath engend'red; And therefore sit you down in gentleness, And take upon command what he Though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus,yet nature finds itself scourg'd by the sequent effects. Tell me, my daughters (Since now we will divest us both of rule, Interest of territory, cares of state), Which of you shall we say doth love us most? That we our largest bounty may extend Where nature doth with merit challenge. Enter [Oswald the] Steward. Heaven bless the isle ofCyprus and our noble general Othello! Exeunt. Your servants everHave theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt,To make their audit at your highness' pleasure,Still to return your own. Sirrah, if any ask you for your master, Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter. Thus Rosalinde of many parts By heavenly synod was devis'd, Of many faces, eyes, and hearts, To have the touches dearest priz'd. Because that I familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool and chat with you, Your sauciness will jest upon my love, And make a common of my serious hours. If you miscarry, Your business of the world hath so an end, And machination ceases. Robert Shallow:Master Sure-card as I thinke? Shal. I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read this otherday, what should follow these eclipses. This is the strangest Tale that e're I heard Prin. Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore be misprised: we will make it our suit to the Duke that the wrestling might not go forward. I haue checkt him for it, and the yong Lion repents:Marry not in ashes and sacke-cloath, but in newSilke, and old Sacke Iust. Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown, he plucked me ope hisdoublet and offered them his throat to cut. There is a dish of Lether-coats for you Shal. Besides, his picture I will send far and near, that all the kingdom May have due note of him, and of my land, Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means To make thee capable. A field of battle between the Roman and the Volsciancamps. His noble kinsman-most degenerate king! But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing, Yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm; We see the wind sit sore upon our sails, And yet we strike not, but securely perish. How is't with you, my lord? OTHELLO. Call't not a plot:The people cry you mock'd them; and of late, When corn was given them gratis, you repin'd;Scandal'd the suppliants for the people,--call'd themTime-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness. The sun of heaven, methought, was loath to set, But stay'd and made the western welkin blush, When English measure backward their own ground In faint retire. I thinke this is the most villanous house in alLondon rode for Fleas: I am stung like a Tench 1. O Lord sir, Ile be sworne vpon all the Books inEngland, I could finde in my heart Poin. You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin; Had you first died, and he been thus trod down, He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay. My due, from thee, is this Imperiall Crowne,Which (as immediate from thy Place, and Blood)Deriues it selfe to me. Where are you Sir Iohn? Come, off with your Boots. O Spartan dog, More fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea! Look on the tragic loading of this bed; This is thy work. How often he had met you, sword to sword;That of all things upon the earth he hatedYour person most; that he would pawn his fortunesTo hopeless restitution, so he mightBe call'd your vanquisher. Enter Leonato and the Constable [Dogberry] and the Headborough[verges]. By the pricking of my thumbs,Something wicked this way comes:--Open, locks, whoever knocks![Enter Macbeth. O, you and I have heard our fathers say There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome As easily as a king. To conclude: this drudge or diviner laid claim to me; call'd me Dromio; swore I was assur'd to her; told me what privy marks I had about me, as, the mark of my shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my left arm, that I, amaz'd, ran from her as The children thus dispos'd, my wife and I, Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd, Fast'ned ourselves at either end the mast, And, floating straight, obedient to the stream, Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought. [ROSALIND swoons] CELIA. Three, they say; but 'tis thought of every one Coriolanus willcarry it. This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the Duke Instantly know, and of that letter too. So bee gone,We will not now be troubled with reply,We offer faire, take it aduisedly. There,?y blessing with thee! [Laying his hand on Laertes? head. And nothing can we can our own but death And that small model of the barren earth Which serves as paste and cover to our bones. So much for him,?Now for ourself and for this time of meeting: Thus much the business is:?e have here writ To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,?Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears Of this his nephew? purpose,?o suppress His further gait herein; i ' 'That I believe' said she, 'for he swore a thing tome on Monday night which he forswore on Tuesday morning. It well appears:?ut tell me Why you proceeded not against these feats, So crimeful and so capital in nature, As by your safety, wisdom, all things else, You mainly were stirr? up. Five days we do allot thee for provision To shield thee from diseases of the world, And on the sixth to turn thy hated back Upon our kingdom. I would thou wert a mans Tailor, that y might'stmend him, and make him fit to goe. It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the propositions of a lover; but take a taste of my finding him,and relish it with good observance. Exit, borne out by his attendants KING RICHARD. But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad, Walks o?r the dew of yon high eastward hill: Break we our watch up: and by my advice, Let us impart what we have seen to-night Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,22 This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him This bald, vnioynted Chat of his (my Lord)Made me to answer indirectly (as I said. As they say,'When the age is in, the wit is out. 'Tis the next way to turne Taylor, or be Redbrestteacher: and the Indentures be drawne, Ile awaywithin these two howres: and so come in, when yeewill. You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects KING PHILIP. Teach thy necessity to reason thus: There is no virtue like necessity. Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so. Then, if angels fight, Weak men must fall; for heaven still guards the right. Our meeting is Bridgenorth: and Harry, you shall marchThrough Glocestershire: by which account,Our Businesse valued some twelue dayes hence,Our generall Forces at Bridgenorth shall meete. I prethee louing Wife, and gentle Daughter,Giue an euen way vnto my rough Affaires:Put not you on the visage of the Times,And be like them to Percie, troublesome Wife. Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so forcible is thy wit. [Within] What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in thetown?Enter ADRIANA, withinADRIANA. If but as well I other accents borrow, That can my speech defuse, my good intent May carry through itself to that full issue For which I raz'd my likeness. 'Od's my little life, I think she means to tangle my eyes too! No faith, proud mistress, hope not after it; 'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair, Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream, That can entame my spirits to your worship. God forgive us our sins! Gentlemen, let's lookto our business. I amsorry for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and herguardian. Good Cousin be aduis'd, stirre not to night Vern. Some must go off; and yet, by these I see,So great a day as this is cheaply bought. How should I your true love know From another one? By his cockle bat and?staff And his sandal shoon. Then thus: I have from Le Port Blanc, a bay In Brittany, receiv'd intelligence That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham, That late broke from the Duke of Exeter, His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury, Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston, In this point charge him home, that he affectsTyrannical power: if he evade us there,Enforce him with his envy to the people;And that the spoil got on the AntiatesWas ne'er distributed. Searching the window for a flint I found This paper thus seal'd up, and I am sure It did not lie there when I went to bed. Know I these men that come along with you? CASSIUS. I have a daughter,?ave whilst she is mine,?Who, in her duty and obedience, mark, Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise. I said thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,' said she, 'a fine little one. It is said: 'Many a man knows noend of his goods. How he solicits heaven,Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,The mere despair of surgery, he cures;Hanging a golden stamp about their necks,Put on with holy prayers: and 'tis spoken,To the succeeding Shall I? content: This Chayre shall bee myState, this Dagger my Scepter, and this Cushion myCrowne Prin. I am settled, and bend upEach corporal agent to this terrible feat. You see this fellow that is gone before; He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar And give direction. Saturne and Venus this yeere in Coniunction?What sayes the Almanack to that? Poin. May be he will not touch young Arthur's life, But hold himself safe in his prisonment. England, shall giue him Office, Honor, Might:For the Fift Harry, from curb'd License pluckesThe muzzle of Restraint; and the wilde DoggeShall flesh his tooth in euery Innocent. Talke not of dying, I am out of feareOf death, or deaths hand, for this one halfe yeare. What letters hast there?I can but thanke you Mess. They bore him barefac? on the bier Hey no nonny, nonny, hey nonny And on his grave rain? many a tear. It is well said, Sir; and it is well said, indeede,too: Better accommodated? it is good, yea indeede isit: good phrases are surely, and euery where very commendable. Thanks, noble peer! The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear. Enter the King, Northumberland, Worcester, Hotspurre, Sir WalterBlunt,and others. Farewell, Monsieur Traveller; look you lisp and wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your own country,be out of love with your nativity, and almost chide God formaking you that countenance you are; or I will scarce think you have swam in a go Then with the losers let it sympathize,For nothing can seeme foule to those that win. O Gentlemen, the time of life is short;To spend that shortnesse basely, were too long. In faith, too much; I find it still when I have list to sleep. 'Tis very true Lord Bardolfe, for indeedIt was yong Hotspurres case, at Shrewsbury L. Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell As when, by night and negligence, the fire Is spied in populous cities. Swearest thou, vngracious Boy? henceforthne're looke on me: thou art violently carryed away fromGrace: there is a Deuill haunts thee, in the likenesse of afat old Man; a Tunne of Man is thy Companion: Whydo'st thou conuerse with that Trunke of Humors, t By computation and mine host's report I could not speak with Dromio since at first I sent him from the mart. <Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUSDROMIO OF SYRACUSE. If sir, you come with news from the Court, I take it, thereis but two wayes, either to vtter them, or to concealethem. I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this butas an essay or taste of my virtue. Take heed o' th' foul fiend; obey thy parents: keep thyword justly; swear not; commit not with man's sworn spouse; setnot thy sweet heart on proud array. I pr'ythee now, my son,Go to them with this bonnet in thy hand;And thus far having stretch'd it,--here be with them,--Thy knee bussing the stones,--for in such busines Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorantMore learned than the ears,--waving tWhy, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer withthy uncover'd body this extremity of the skies. By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hearsuch a foolish song. I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years Have I been patron to Antipholus, During which time he ne'er saw Syracuse. Thy mistress' marks! What mistress,slave, hast thou?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And I another,So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,That I would set my life on any chance,To mend it or be rid on't. That hand which had the strength, even at your door. So is he mine; and in such bloody distance,That every minute of his being thrustsAgainst my near'st of life; and though I couldWith barefac'd power sweep him from my sight,And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,For certain friends that are both his anThe Southerne windeDoth play the Trumpet to his purposes,And by his hollow whistling in the Leaues,Fortels a Tempest, and a blust'ring day King. When we are born, we cry that we are come To this great stage of fools. 'Shall I,' says she, 'that have so oft encount'red him with scorn, write tohim that I love him?'" Leon. Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house. Tender yourself more dearly; Or,?ot to crack the wind of the poor phrase, Wronging it thus,?ou?l tender me a fool. Hide thee, thou bloody hand; Thou perjur'd, and thou simular man of virtue That art incestuous. I warrant you, that man is not aliue,Might so haue tempted him, as you haue done,Without the taste of danger, and reproofe:But doe not vse it oft, let me entreat you Worc. Yes; I think he is not a pick-purse nor a horse-stealer;but for his verity in love, I do think him as concave as covered goblet or a worm-eaten nut. Blunt, leade him hence, and see you guard him sure. Weapons, weapons, weapons![They all bustle about CORIOLANUS. Midnight, assist our moan, Help us to sigh and groan Heavily, heavily, Graves, yawn and yield your dead, Till death be uttered Heavily, heavily. Now He that made me knows I see thee ill; Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill. I know that, but I would have thee hence and here again. Nay, this was but his dream. Tush, fear not, man! We'll tip thy horns with gold, And all Europa shall rejoice at thee, As once Europa did at lusty Jove When he would play the noble beast in love. Send Colleuile, with his Confederates,To Yorke, to present Execution. Where art thou? Unlocks thedoor. Therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm (his conscience) find no impediment to the contrary, to be thetrumpet of his own virtues, as I am to myself. The King is kinde:And well wee know, the KingKnowes at what time to promise, when to pay. Your hand: most welcome![Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS. Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed: Our doctors say this is no month to bleed. ?is now the very witching time of night, When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood, And do such bitter business as the day Would quake to look on. Enter, below, Brabantio, in his nightgown, and Servants with torches. My Lord, I beseech you, giue me leaue to goethrough Gloucestershire: and when you come to Court,stand my good Lord, 'pray, in your good report Iohn. How say you, Cassio? Is henot a most profane and liberal counselor? CASSIO. [As they are going out,] enter Edgar [disguised]. As the event stamps them; but they have a good cover, they show well outward. It were as possiblefor me to say I loved nothing so well as you. <Exeunt all but ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, ANTIPHOLUS OFEPHESUS, DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, and DROMIO OF EPHESUSDROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words are not mine. Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me. The shepherd knows not thunder from a taborMore than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue From every meaner man. Why??ne fair daughter, and no more, The which he loved passing well. You two are old men:tell me one thing that I shall ask you. Come, madam, and come, Richard, we must speed For France, for France, for it is more than need. I, but tis like that they will know vs by ourhorses, by our habits, and by euery other appointment tobe our selues Poy. Do! Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow Upon the foul disease. He chid the sistersWhen first they put the name of king upon me,And bade them speak to him; then, prophet-like,They hail'd him father to a line of kings:Upon my head they plac'd a fruitless crown,And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,Thence to be wrench' There are many events in the womb oftime which will be delivered. There is a tide in the affairs of men Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune; Omitted, all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries. They that mean virtuously and yet do so, The devil their virtue tempts and they tempt heaven. O, what a world is this, when what is comely Envenoms him that bears it! ORLANDO. He cannot flatter, he! An honest mind and plainhe must speak truth! An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain. Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen herrise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock hercloset, take forth paper, fold it, write upon it, read it,afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all thiswhile in a most fast sleepNo, Cassius, for the eye sees not itself But by reflection, by some other things. Are you a married man or a bachelor? SECOND CITIZEN. Brutus goes into the pulpit. If I trauell but foure foot by the squire further afoote, I shall breake my winde. Speak, hands, for me! Casca first, then the other Conspirators and Marcus Brutus stab Caesar. But, peace!--for from broad words, and 'cause he fail'dHis presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear,Macduff lives in disgrace. Brought you Caesar home? Why are you breathless, and why stare you so? CASCA. With many Holiday and Lady tearmeHe question'd me: Among the rest, demandedMy Prisoners, in your Maiesties behalfe. Sir Robert's son! Ay, thou unreverend boy, Sir Robert's son! Why scorn'st thou at Sir Robert? He is Sir Robert's son, and so art thou. She that was ever fair and never proud, Had tongue at will and yet was never loud, Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay, Fled from her wish and yet said, "Now I may"; She that, being anger'd, her revenge being nigh, Bade her wrong stay and her displ That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this: You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella For taking bribes here of the Sardians, Wherein my letters, praying on his side, Because I knew the man, were slighted off. And you degenerate, you ingrate revolts, You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb Of your dear mother England, blush for shame; For your own ladies and pale-visag'd maids, Like Amazons, come tripping after drums, Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change But let me conjure you, by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with me, whether you were sent for How? haz he the leysure to be sicke now,In such a iustling time? Who leades his power?Vnder whose Gouernment come they along? Mess. These profound heaves You must translate: ?is fit we understand them. The question then (Lord Hastings) standeth thusWhether our present fiue and twenty thousandMay hold-vp-head, without Northumberland: Hast. What's the boy Malcolm?Was he not born of woman? The spirits that knowAll mortal consequences have pronounc'd me thus,--"Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of womanShall e'er have power upon thee. Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the greater soldier. Mistress, both man and master is possess'd; I know it by their pale and deadly looks. If he had been forgotten,It had been as a gap in our great feast,And all-thing unbecoming. There's some among you have beheld me fighting;Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me. Thou hast stolne that, which after some few howresWere thine, without offence: and at my deathThou hast seal'd vp my expectation. Hence, avaunt! ExitDesdemona. Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile; Filths savour but themselves. I'll go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll rail against all the first-born of Egypt. There is so much that thou wilt kill mestraight: Kill Brutus, and be honor'd in his death. Do you not come your tardy son to chide, That, laps? in time and passion, lets go by The important acting of your dread command? O, say! Ghost. If our father carryauthority with such dispositions as he bears, this last surrender ofhis will but offend us. When he lies along,After your way his tale pronounc'd shall buryHis reasons with his body. These tedious old fools! [Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion; I do repent me that I put it to you. I'll go finda shadow, and sigh till he come. One that will play the devil, sir, with you, An 'a may catch your hide and you alone. Saint George, that swing'd the dragon, and e'er since Sits on's horse back at mine hostess' door, Teach us some fence! [To AUSTRIA] Sirrah, were I at home, At your den, sirrah, with your lioness, I would set an ox-head to your lion's hide, And make a mo Let our just censuresAttend the true event, and put we onIndustrious soldiership. We shall find of him A shrewd contriver; and you know his means, If he improve them, may well stretch so far As to annoy us all, which to prevent, Let Antony and Caesar fall together. Is thy master stirring?--Our knocking has awak'd him; here he comes. As heart can thinke:There is not such a word spoke of in Scotland,At this Dreame of Feare. Fare you well; had you such a loss as I, I could give better comfort than you do. Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer: Establish him in his true sense again, And I will please you what you will demand. How many ages hence Shall this our lofty scene be acted over In states unborn and accents yet unknown! BRUTUS. Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band; that brings any man to answer it that breaks his band; on that thinks a man always going to bed, and says 'God give you good rest!'ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon. No, by this heavenly light! EMILIA. But here's my husband, And so much duty as my mother show'd To you, preferring you before her father, So much I challenge that I may profess Due to the Moor, my lord. Come, be a man! Drown thyself? Drown cats and blind puppies. Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand, Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs. With all my heart Ile sit, and heare her sing:By that time will our Booke, I thinke, be drawne Glend. A letter for me! It gives me an estate of seven years'health; in which time I will make a lip at the physician: themost sovereign prescription in Galen is but empiricutic, and, tothis preservative, of no better report than a horse-drench. Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome? My ancestors did from the streets of Rome The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king. Beware Of entrance to a quarrel; but, being in, Bear? that the opposed may beware of thee. Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not so;they are in a most warlike preparation, and hope to come uponthem in the heat of their division. --The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thyparticular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old fatherMenenius does! O my son! my son! thou art preparing fire for us;look thee, here's water to quench it. He'll watch the horologe a double set, If drink rock not his cradle. What, Oswald, ho! [To the Fool] You, sir, more knave than fool, after yourmaster! Fool. The Dauphin is preparing hitherward, Where God He knows how we shall answer him; For in a night the best part of my pow'r, As I upon advantage did remove, Were in the Washes all unwarily Devoured by the unexpected flood. My money is almostspent; I have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled; and I think the issue will be, I shall have so much experience for my pains;and so, with no money at all and a little more wit, return againto Venice. Of all men else I have avoided thee:But get thee back; my soul is too much charg'dWith blood of thine already. Go tell the lords o' the city I am here:Deliver them this paper; having read it,Bid them repair to the market-place: where I,Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,Will vouch the truth of it. Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour, And not the King exil'd thee; or suppose Devouring pestilence hangs in our air And thou art flying to a fresher clime. And Iprythee sweet Wagge, when thou art King, as God sauethy Grace, Maiesty I should say, for Grace thou wiltehaue none Prin. I am most fortunate thus accidentally toencounter you; you have ended my business, and I will merrilyaccompany you home. Our reasons are so full of good regard That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar, You should be satisfied. Heigh-ho! sing heigh-ho! unto the green holly. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty. I have but this to say That he is not only plagued for her sin, But God hath made her sin and her the plague On this removed issue, plagued for her And with her plague; her sin his injury, Her injury the beadle to her sin; All punish'd in the person of  [Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, COMINIUS, Senators, and Patricians. There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace; We grant thou canst outscold us. Shall I keep your hogs, and eat husks with them? What prodigal portion have I spent that I should come to suchpenury? OLIVER. This earth shall have a feeling, and these stones Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms. After, Aumerle! Mount thee upon his horse; Spur post, and get before him to the King, And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee. Be it as you shall privately determine, Either for her stay or going. Are you not a Coward? Answer me to that, andPoines there? Prin. Yet again methinks Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb, Is coming towards me, and my inward soul With nothing trembles. My lord, he is but even now gone hence; Here was he merry, hearing of a song. If you bea true lover, hence, and not a word; for here comes morecompany. Unkind remembrance! thou and eyeless night Have done me shame. You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have notdeserved nobly. The sea, with such a storm as his bare head In hell-black night endur'd, would have buoy'd up And quench'd the steeled fires. There, on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds Clamb?ing to hang, an envious sliver broke; When down her weedy trophies and herself Fell in the weeping brook. Ile be a Traitor then, when thou art King Prin. So holy and so perfect is my love, And I in such a poverty of grace, That I shall think it a most plenteous crop To glean the broken ears after the man That the main harvest reaps; loose now and then A scatt'red smile, and that I'll live upon. That you beat me at the mart I have your hand to show; If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink, Your own handwriting would tell you what I think. [Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA; they sit down on two low stools andsew. Do not laugh at me; For (as I am a man) I think this lady To be my child Cordelia. First, the gods bless you for your tidings; next,Accept my thankfulness. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones: Prerogatived are they less than the base; 'Tis destiny unshunnable, like death. The body is with the king, but the king is not with the body. I go to take my stand To see him pass on to the Capitol. Had you your letters from your wife, my lord? BRUTUS. Our last king, Whose image even but now appear? to us, Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway, Thereto prick? on by a most emulate pride, Dar? to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet,?For so this side of our known world esteem? him,?Did slay this  The point envenom? too!?Then, venom, to thy work. 'Tis wonderful What may be wrought out of their discontent, Now that their souls are topful of offence. So, I am free, yet would not so have been, Durst I have done my will. The deep of night is crept upon our talk, And nature must obey necessity, Which we will niggard with a little rest. Look in upon me then, and speak with me, Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee. O noble sir! Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me. I offer'd to awaken his regardFor's private friends: his answer to me was,He could not stay to pick them in a pileOf noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,For one poor grain or two, to leave unburntAnd still to nose the offence. The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,And these are of them:--whither are they vanish'd?MACBETH. Stand fast; We have as many friends as enemies. Tell him I have movedmy lord on his behalf and hope all will be well. I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true; thoughI'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. I know not how they sold themselues, but thoulike a kinde fellow, gau'st thy selfe away; and I thankethee, for thee. Barren, barren, barren: Beggers all, beggers allSir Iohn: Marry, good ayre. Good sir, be a man; Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked May draw with you. Nay, but he prated And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms Against your honor That, with the little godliness I have, I did full hard forbear him. I hope the King is not yet shipp'd for Ireland. As it is a spare life, look you, it fits my humour well; but as there is no moreplenty in it, it goes much against my stomach. 'Tis the curse of service, Preferment goes by letter and affection, And not by old gradation, where each second Stood heir to the first. Set you down this; And say besides, that in Aleppo once, Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk Beat a Venetian and traduced the state, I took by the throat the circumcised dog And smote him, thus. Another part of the forestEnter SILVIUS and PHEBE SILVIUS. My lord, will't please you to fall to? KING RICHARD. There? fennel for you, and columbines:?here? rue for you; and here? some for me:?e may call it herb of grace o?Sundays:?, you must wear your rue with a difference. Is execution done on Cawdor? Are notThose in commission yet return'd?MALCOLM. Yet, by your gracious patience, I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver Of my whole course of love: what drugs, what charms, What conjuration, and what mighty magic For such proceeding I am charged withal I won his daughter. If they get ground, and vantage of the King,Then ioyne you with them, like a Ribbe of Steele,To make Strength stronger. Why, how now, ho! from whence ariseth this? Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites? For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl. First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people. But heaven hath a hand in these events, To whose high will we bound our calm contents. My charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner. She knapp'd 'em o' th' coxcombswith a stick and cried 'Down, wantons, down!' 'Twas her brotherthat, in pure kindness to his horse, buttered his hay. Nay, they will be kin to vs, but they wil fetchit from Iaphet. Here's the smell of the blood still: all the perfumesof Arabia will not sweeten this little hand. Very well, my lord; Your grace has laid the odds o?the weaker side. Methinks I should know you, and know this man; Yet I am doubtful; for I am mainly ignorant What place this is; and all the skill I have Remembers not these garments; nor I know not Where I did lodge last night. Never afflict yourself to know the cause; But let his disposition have that scope That dotage gives it. Why not to him in part, and to vs all,That feele the bruizes of the dayes before,And suffer the Condition of these TimesTo lay a heauie and vnequall Hand vpon our Honors? West. A wonder, lady! Lo, upon thy wish, Our messenger Chatillon is arriv'd. He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth on't; beforeCorioli he scotched him and notched him like a carbonado. Pleaseth your Grace, to answere them directly,How farre-forth you doe like their Articles Iohn. O, where hath our intelligence been drunk? Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care, That such an army could be drawn in France, And she not hear of it? MESSENGER. --Dear Duff, I pr'ythee, contradict thyself,And say it is not so. Thy sins are visited in this poor child; The canon of the law is laid on him, Being but the second generation Removed from thy sin-conceiving womb. The Prince of Wales stept forth before the king,And Nephew, challeng'd you to single fight Hot. I from my mistress come to you in post; If I return, I shall be post indeed, For she will score your fault upon my pate. List to your tribunes; audience: peace, I say!CORIOLANUS. This day I breathed first: time is come round, And where I did begin, there shall I end; My life is run his compass. Besides, the King hath wasted all his Rods,On late Offenders, that he now doth lackeThe very Instruments of Chasticement:So that his power, like to a Fanglesse LionMay offer, but not hold Bish. Well, I will hie And so bestow these papers as you bade me. O, I do not like that paying backe, 'tis a doubleLabour Prin. Come, come, I am a king; My masters, know you that? Gent. But, O, what form of prayer98 Can serve my turn? Forgive me my foul murder!?That cannot be; since I am still possess? Of those effects for which I did the murder,?My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen. O most gentle pulpiter! What tedious homily of lovehave you wearied your parishioners withal, and never cried 'Have patience, good people. The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea Stand ranks of people, and they cry, "A sail!" CASSIO. Which of these sorrows is he subject to?ADRIANA. See, Antony, that revels long o' nights, Is notwithstanding up. I have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily qualified too, and behold what innovation it makes here. But make amends now: get you gone,And at the pit of AcheronMeet me i' the morning: thither heWill come to know his destiny. So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs, And woes by wrong imaginations lose The knowledge of themselves. To-night we hold a solemn supper, sir,And I'll request your presence. At Worcester must his body be interr'd; For so he will'd it. Look you, sir, Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris; And how, and who, what means, and where they keep, What company, at what expense; and finding, By this encompassment and drift of question, That they do know my son, come you more nearer Than y Therefore lay hold of him;Bear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thenceInto destruction cast him. The enemy comes on in gallant show; Their bloody sign of battle is hung out, And something to be done immediately. I found it by the barrenness, hard in the palm of the hand. A wretched soul, bruis'd with adversity, We bid be quiet when we hear it cry; But were we burd'ned with like weight of pain, As much, or more, we should ourselves complain. Censure me inyour wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge. Your lady, sir, your lady! and her sister By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it. Say we read lectures to you,How youngly he began to serve his country,How long continued: and what stock he springs of--The noble house o' the Marcians; from whence cameThat Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,Who, after great Hostilius, here was king; The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd The shadow of your face. I pray you (Sir) then set your Knighthood andyour Souldier-ship aside, and giue mee leaue to tell you,you lye in your throat, if you say I am any other then anhonest man Fal. O that I had been writ down an ass! Exeunt. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares! His form and cause conjoin?, preaching to stones, Would make them capable. As I do live, my honour? lord, ?is true; And we did think it writ down in our duty To let you know of it. To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself Did steal behind him as he lay along Under an oak whose antique root peeps out Upon the brook that brawls along this wood! To the which place a poor sequest'red stag, That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt, Did c So is all her Sect: if they be once in a Calme,they are sick Dol. --We'll talkwith Margaret, How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow. That nowSweno, the Norways' king, craves composition;Nor would we deign him burial of his menTill he disbursed, at Saint Colme's-inch,Ten thousand dollars to our general use. Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such offenders, and let Time try. Come, come, do you think I do not know you by yourexcellent wit? Can virtue hide itself? Go to, mum you are he. Lucilius, come, And come, young Cato; let us to the field. How comes this, Sir Iohn? Fy, what a man ofgood temper would endure this tempest of exclamation?Are you not asham'd to inforce a poore Widdowe to sorough a course, to come by her owne? Falst. The Duke of Norfolk, spightfully and bold, Stays but the summons of the appelant's trumpet. Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts, and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath given them in wit. By mine honour, I will; and when I breakthat oath, let me turn monster; therefore, my sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry. He means, my lord, that we are too remiss; Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security, Grows strong and great in substance and in power. Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?Come, sister, you shall be the priest, and marry us. Close pent-up guilts, Rive your concealing continents, and cry These dreadful summoners grace. Now, whether it be Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple Of thinking too precisely on the event,?A thought which, quarter?, hath but one part wisdom And ever three parts coward,? do not know Why yet I live to say ?his thing? to do;?Sith I have cause, Windsor CastleEnter BOLINGBROKE as King, PERCY, and other LORDS BOLINGBROKE. I'll write to him a very taunting letter, And thou shalt bear it; wilt thou, Silvius? SILVIUS. Their armours that march'd hence so silver-bright Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen's blood. This presence knows, and you must needs have heard, How I am punish? with sore distraction. Nay, let them follow:The Volsces have much corn; take these rats thitherTo gnaw their garners. Ha! Goneril with a white beard? They flatter'd me like adog, and told me I had white hairs in my beard ere the black ones were there. Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right, So be thy fortune in this royal fight! Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed, Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead. There's one did laugh in's sleep, and one cried, "Murder!"That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:But they did say their prayers, and address'd themAgain to sleep. True, worthy Banquo!--he is full so valiant;And in his commendations I am fed,--It is a banquet to me. Mad let us grant him then: and now remains That we find out the cause of this effect; Or rather say, the cause of this defect, For this effect defective comes by cause: Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats; If it be man's work, I'll do't. Dost thou think Alexander looked o?this fashion i?the earth? Hor. O, they are our friends! But one cup; I'll drink for you. This castle hath a pleasant seat: the airNimbly and sweetly recommends itselfUnto our gentle senses. I do not ask you much; I beg cold comfort; and you are so strait And so ingrateful you deny me that. What, you have charg'd me with, that have I done, And more, much more. Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore; Be sure of it. If you please, Be't at her father's. By this time our sextonhath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter. The Earle of Westmerland, seuen thousand strong,Is marching hither-wards, with Prince Iohn Hotsp. Go bid the priests do present sacrifice, And bring me their opinions of success. Another part of the forestEnter AMIENS, JAQUES, and OTHERS SONG AMIENS. To bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate: come, come, come,come, give me your hand: what's done cannot be undone: to bed, tobed, to bed. Here's a change indeed! Exit. My gracious liege, when that my father liv'd, Your brother did employ my father much BASTARD. I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness. Then call them to our presence: face to face And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear The accuser and the accused freely speak. SONG Wedding is great Juno's crown; O blessed bond of board and bed! 'Tis Hymen peoples every town; High wedlock then be honoured. I say, if he would incline to thepeople, there was never a worthier man. I will to-morrow,(And betimes I will) to the weird sisters:More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,By the worst means, the worst. <ExitSCENE 4A streetEnter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS with the OFFICERANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. There's none so foul and foolish thereunto, But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do. Will't not be? Will not a calf's-skin stop that mouth of thine? LEWIS. Come, lords, away, To fight with Glendower and his complices. Woe doth the heavier sit Where it perceives it is but faintly home. The wrathful skies Gallow the very wanderers of the dark And make them keep their caves. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world? EMILIA. Her honor is an essence that's not seen; They have it very oft that have it not. No, Caesar hath it not, but you, and I, And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness. We call a nettle but a nettle; andThe faults of fools but folly. And so to the Lie Circumstantial and the Lie Direct. Home without Bootes,And in foule Weather too,How scapes he Agues in the Deuils name? Glend. Cheerly, good Adam! ExeuntSCENE VII. Ingratitude is monstrous: and forthe multitude to be ingrateful were to make a monster of themultitude; of the which we being members, should bring ourselvesto be monstrous members. But, good Laertes, Will you do this, keep close within your chamber. No, this was he, Messala, But Cassius is no more. But I pray you,who is his companion? Is there no young squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil? Mess. Uncle, farewell; and, cousin, adieu; Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true. And then the justice, In fair round belly with good capon lin'd, With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, Full of wise saws and modern instances; And so he plays his part. Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires; I'll leave you. To Adriana! that is where we din'd, Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband. You swore to vs,And you did sweare that Oath at Doncaster,That you did nothing of purpose 'gainst the State,Nor claime no further, then your new-falne right,The seate of Gaunt, Dukedome of Lancaster,To this, we sware our aide: But in short space,It rain ' Then, being there alone, Left and abandoned of his velvet friends: ''Tis right'; quoth he 'thus misery doth part The flux of company. Then would you be nothing but Musicall,For you are altogether gouerned by humors:Lye still ye Theefe, and heare the Lady sing in Welsh Hotsp. At such a time I?l loose my daughter to him: Be you and I behind an arras then; Mark the encounter: if he love her not, And he not from his reason fall? thereon Let me be no assistant for a state, But keep a farm and carters. O, no; for the Duke's daughter, her cousin, so lovesher, being ever from their cradles bred together, that she wouldhave followed her exile, or have died to stay behind her. To every Roman citizen he gives, To every several man, seventy-five drachmas. What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge? Second a villain and a murderer? HUBERT. If any bark put forth, come to the mart, Where I will walk till thou return to me. Amen, sir:--to my poor unworthy notice, He mocked us when he begg'd our voices. For those that could speake low, and tardily,Would turne their owne Perfection, to Abuse,To seeme like him. Happily he? the second time come to them; for they say an old man is twice a child. A very riband in the cap of youth, Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes The light and careless livery that it wears Than settled age his sables and his weeds, Importing health and graveness. Do not I know thou wouldst? Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye On yon young boy. To his good friends thus wide I?l ope my arms; And, like the kind life-rendering pelican, Repast them with my blood. Carrie Master Silence to bed: Master Shallow, myLord Shallow, be what thou wilt, I am Fortunes Steward. Now Heauen blesse that sweete Faceof thine: what, are you come from Wales? Fal. Woe that too late repents!O, sir, are you come? Is it your will? Speak, sir!Prepare my horses. 'Good den, Sir Richard!'-'God-a-mercy, fellow!' And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter; For new-made honour doth forget men's names: 'Tis too respective and too sociable For your conversion. They say there's grain enough!Would the nobility lay aside their ruthAnd let me use my sword, I'd make a quarryWith thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as highAs I could pick my lance. In faith, he's penitent; And yet his trespass, in our common reason Save that, they say, the wars must make example Out of their bestis not almost a fault To incur a private check. This is unlikely:He and Aufidius can no more atoneThan violentest contrariety. Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius, Had you a healthful ear to hear of it. Well, he may sleep inSecurity, for he hath the horne of Abundance: and thelightnesse of his Wife shines through it, and yet cannothe see, though he haue his owne Lanthorne to light him. No? How might a Prince of my great hopes forgetSo great Indignities you laid vpon me?What? Rate? Rebuke? and roughly send to PrisonTh' immediate Heire of England? Was this easie?May this be wash'd in Lethe, and forgotten? Ch. There, take it; and much thanks for my good cheer. Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand; Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb, And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn, Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodg'd in thee, When triumph is become an alehouse guest? KING RICHARD. The forestEnter ORLANDO, with a paper ORLANDO. Marry, well bethought: ?is told me he hath very oft of late Given private time to you; and you yourself Have of your audience been most free and bounteous; If it be so,?s so ?is put on me, And that in way of caution,? must tell you You do not understand If she should make tender of her love,'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the man (as you know all)hath a contemptible spirit. I have done the state some service, and they know't. The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith, But from her need. Villains! You did not so when your vile daggers Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar. This is themotley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in the forest. A maid, and stuff'd! There's goodly catching of cold. Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I havea stope of wine, and here without are a brace of Cyprusgallants that would fain have a measure to the health of blackOthello. Help, ho! murther! murther! Enter Edmund, with his rapier drawn, Gloucester, Cornwall, Regan, Servants. It is to be all made of fantasy, All made of passion, and all made of wishes; All adoration, duty, and observance, All humbleness, all patience, and impatience, All purity, all trial, all obedience; And so am I for Phebe. It is my cousin's duty to make cursy and say, 'Father, as it please you. I had as live have heard the night raven, come what plague could have come after it. Ah, sirrah, a body would think this was well counterfeited. So oft as that shall be, So often shall the knot of us be call'd The men that gave their country liberty. You did commit me:For which, I do commit into your hand,Th' vnstained Sword that you haue vs'd to beare:With this Remembrance; That you vse the sameWith the like bold, iust, and impartiall spiritAs you haue done 'gainst me. Then a soldier, Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard, Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel, Seeking the bubble reputation Even in the cannon's mouth. Let your highnessCommand upon me; to the which my dutiesAre with a most indissoluble tieFor ever knit. What wouldst thou do, old man? Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound When majesty falls to folly. --A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,And yet I would not sleep:--merciful powers,Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that natureGives way to in repose!--Give me my sword. Haply, for I am black And have not those soft parts of conversation That chamberers have, or for I am declined Into the vale of yearsyet that's not much She's gone. If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,'Tis sworn between us we shall ever strikeTill one can do no more. What, think you the King shall be deposed? GARDENER. I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the contrary, if Hero would be my wife. I ambetter than thou art now: I am a fool, thou art nothing. Romans, countrymen, and lovers! Hear me for my cause, and be silent, that you may hear. Please't your highnessTo grace us with your royal company?MACBETH. O, giueme the spare men, and spare me the great ones. God keep your worship! I wish your worship well. And ladies too,they will not let me have all the fool to myself; they'll be snatching. The Prince yourbrother is royally entertain'd by Leonato, and I can give youintelligence of an intended marriage. It is not lost; but what an if it were? OTHELLO. All, all! and moreover, God saw him when he was hid inthe garden. Hath he not pass'd the noble and the commons?BRUTUS. It would beseem the Lord Northumberland To say 'King Richard. A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vileMartext. According to the fair play of the world, Let me have audience: I am sent to speak. See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks. Men at some time are masters of their fates: The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves that we are underlings. I hope, in no place so unsanctifiedWhere such as thou mayst find him. [To LUCIANA] What I told you then, I hope I shall have leisure to make good; If this be not a dream I see and hear. Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus? Cry 'havoc!' kings; back to the stained field, You equal potents, fiery kindled spirits! Then let confusion of one part confirm The other's peace. With meditating that she must die once I have the patience to endure it now. The contents,as in part I understand them, are to blame. [Within] It seems thou want'st breaking; out upon thee, hind!DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I do know, When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter, Giving more light than heat,?xtinct in both, Even in their promise, as it is a-making,?You must not take for fire. What, fifty of my followers at a clap? Within a fortnight? Alb. No, here it is:Sit Cousin Percy, sit good Cousin Hotspurre:For by that Name, as oft as Lancaster doth speake of you,His Cheekes looke pale, and with a rising sigh,He wisheth you in Heauen Hotsp. Therefore, let's hence,And with our fair entreaties haste them on. Shehath bin in good case, & the truth is, pouerty hath distractedher: but for these foolish Officers, I beseech you, Imay haue redresse against them Iust. Tell mebut trulybut then speak the truth Do you not love my sister? Edm. Put me aCalyuer into Warts hand, Bardolph Bard. Enter Lodovico and Gratiano. If't be so,For Banquo's issue have I fil'd my mind;For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;Put rancours in the vessel of my peaceOnly for them; and mine eternal jewelGiven to the common enemy of man,To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!Rath Two truths are told,As happy prologues to the swelling actOf the imperial theme. O, a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet. It is a partThat I shall blush in acting, and might wellBe taken from the people. With lawyers in the vacation; for they sleep betweenterm and term, and then they perceive not how Time moves. The sight whereof I think you had from me, From Claudio, and the Prince; but what's your will? Bene. I am assur'd (if I be measur'd rightly)Your Maiesty hath no iust cause to hate mee Pr. That is one of the points in the which women stillgive the lie to their consciences. I cannot thinke (my Lord) your son is dead Mor. Brutus hath a suit That Caesar will not grant. No, by my life and soul! Send for the man, and ask him. Thou whoreson, senseless villain!DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nicholas Clarks,Ile giue thee this necke Cham. Say, is my kingdom lost? Why, 'twas my care, And what loss is it to be rid of care? Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we? Greater he shall not be; if he serve God, We'll serve him too, and be his fellow so. I know youare my eldest brother; and in the gentle condition of blood, you should so know me. I vnderstand thy Kisses, and thou mine,And that's a feeling disputation:But I will neuer be a Truant, Loue,Till I haue learn'd thy Language: for thy tongueMakes Welsh as sweet as Ditties highly penn'd,Sung by a faire Queene in a Summers Bowre,With rauis That will I, for I must bear answer back How you excuse my brother, Rosalind. To his conveyance I assign my wife, With what else needful your good Grace shall think To be sent after me. O, she misus'd me past the endurance of a block! An oakbut with one green leaf on it would have answered her; my veryvisor began to assume life and scold with her. Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth Shakes like a thing unfirm? O Cicero, I have seen tempests when the scolding winds Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam To be exalted with the threatening c My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk; Who hither come engaged by my oath Which God defend a knight should violate! Both to defend my loyalty and truth To God, my King, and my succeeding issue, Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me; And, by  Like a Tench? There is ne're a King in Christendome,could be better bit, then I haue beene since thefirst Cocke 2. Marry, so it doth appear By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear. It hath beene prophesi'de to me many yeares,I should not dye, but in Ierusalem:Which (vainly) I suppos'd the Holy-Land. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Macbethas Queen; Lennox, Ross, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants. Keep thy foot out of brothel, thyhand out of placket, thy pen from lender's book, and defy thefoul fiend. Let us ratherHold fast the mortal sword, and, like good men,Bestride our down-fall'n birthdom: each new mornNew widows howl; new orphans cry; new sorrowsStrike heaven on the face, that it resoundsAs if it felt with Scotland, and yell'd outLike syllable o[Enter Antonio's Son with a Musician, and others. Here's too much 'out upon thee!' pray thee letme in. Some of my shame; if you will know of me What man I am, and how, and why, and where, This handkercher was stain'd. Men judge by the complexion of the sky The state in inclination of the day; So may you by my dull and heavy eye, My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say. Pardon, goddess of the night, Those that slew thy virgin knight; For the which, with songs of woe, Round about her tomb they go. If that from him there may be aught applied Which may her suffering ecstasy assuage, 'Tis promised in the charity of age. They know the cornWas not our recompense, resting well assur'dThey ne'er did service for't; being press'd to the war,Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,They would not thread the gates,--this kind of serviceDid not deserve corn gratis: being i' But I do think it is their husbands' faults If wives do fall; say that they slack their duties And pour our treasures into foreign laps, Or else break out in peevish jealousies, Throwing restraint upon us, or say they strike us, Or scant our former havi O, reason not the need! Our basest beggars Are in the poorest thing superfluous. [To NORTHUMBERLAND] We are amaz'd; and thus long have we stood To watch the fearful bending of thy knee, Because we thought ourself thy lawful King; And if we be, how dare thy joints forget To pay their awful duty to our presence? If we be not, show us  More health and happiness betide my liege Than can my care-tun'd tongue deliver him. Do you not loue me?Nay, tell me if thou speak'st in iest, or no Hot. Peace, ho!--no outrage;--peace! The man is noble, and his fame folds inThis orb o' the earth. If thou canst cuckold him, thou dostthyself a pleasure, me a sport. Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you That he is borne about invisible. The King of Heaven forbid our lord the King Should so with civil and uncivil arms Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin, Harry Bolingbroke, doth humbly kiss thy hand; And by the honourable tomb he swears That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,  There's no artTo find the mind's construction in the face:He was a gentleman on whom I builtAn absolute trust. Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent; who in disguise Followed his enemy king and did him service Improper for a slave. Niggard of question; but, of our demands, Most free in his reply. All blest secrets, All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth, Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate In the good man's distress! Seek, seek for him! Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life That wants the means to lead it. What will ensue hereof there's none can tell; But by bad courses may be understood That their events can never fall out good. No good at all that I can do for him; Unless you call it good to pity him, Bereft and gelded of his patrimony. I am not mad-I would to heaven I were! For then 'tis like I should forget myself. Now doth it turne, and ebbe backe to the Sea,Where it shall mingle with the state of Floods,And flow henceforth in formall Maiesty. So is he now in execution Of any bold or noble enterprise, However he puts on this tardy form. And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee, Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand. I marry Sir Iohn, which I beseech you to let mehaue home with me Fal. Why not by th' hand, sir? How have I offended? All's not offence that indiscretion finds And dotage terms so. Harry, I doe not onely maruell where thou spendest thytime; but also, how thou art accompanied: For thoughthe Camomile, the more it is troden, the faster it growes;yet Youth, the more it is wasted, the sooner it weares. A plague of all Cowards still, say I Prince. You must therefore be content to slubber thegloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous expedition. Hark, she speaks: I will set down what comes from her, tosatisfy my remembrance the more strongly. Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago; and rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me allconveniency than suppliest me with the least advantage of hope. Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman Deserve as full, as fortunate a bed As ever Beatrice shall couch upon? Hero. The Volsces retire into Corioli, and MARCIUS followsthem to the gates. Hence, horrible shadow!Unreal mockery, hence![Ghost disappears. What, are you mad, that you do reason so?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. The gods give you joy, sir, heartily![Exeunt citizens. But, to Orlando: did he leave him there, Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness? OLIVER. Nay, I prithee now, with most petitionary vehemence,tell me who it is. But indeede these humble considerationsmake me out of loue with my Greatnesse. By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found you. Shall then my father's will be of no force To dispossess that child which is not his? BASTARD. If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke, Imp out our drooping country's broken wing, Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown, Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt, And make high majesty look like itself, Away with me in post to Raven Monsieur the Challenger, the Princess calls for you. Happy are theythat hear their detractions and can put them to mending. Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give Thee o'er to harshness. And for whose death, we in the worlds wide mouthLiue scandaliz'd, and fouly spoken of Hot. I have heard you sayHonour and policy, like unsever'd friends,I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell meIn peace what each of them by th' other loseThat they combine not there. So far be mine, my most redoubted lord, As my true service shall deserve your love. It was his bidding; therefore, good Emilia, Give me my nightly wearing, and adieu. We will not line his thin bestained cloak With our pure honours, nor attend the foot That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks. Now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit; For even the breath of what I mean to speak Shall blow each dust, each straw, each little rub, Out of the path which shall directly lead Thy foot to England's throne. But hee hath forc'd vs to compell this Offer,And it proceedes from Pollicy, not Loue West. You have lost no reputation at all, unless you repute yourself such a loser. Ned, prethee come out of that fat roome, & lendme thy hand to laugh a little Poines. and pat! he comes, like the catastrophe of the old comedy. If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me, I shall beseech him to befriend himself. And how doth my Cousin, your Bed-fellow?and your fairest Daughter, and mine, my God-DaughterEllen? Sil. Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion, By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations. If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call tothe nurse and bid her still it. The great rage You see is kill'd in him; and yet it is danger To make him even o'er the time he has lost. We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken upof these men's bills. You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo, Before You visit him, to make inquiry Of his behaviour. To comfort you the more, I haue receiu'dA certaine instance, that Glendour is dead. O that your Highness knew my heart in this! I never lov'd my brother in my life. An you will not be answer'd with reason, I must die. Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go? ADAM. I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have, Come on't what will. Not a peny, not a peny: you are too impatientto beare crosses. There's not a Shirt and a halfe in all myCompany: and the halfe Shirt is two Napkins tackt together,and throwne ouer the shoulders like a HeraldsCoat, without sleeues: and the Shirt, to say the truth,stolne from my Host of S[aint]. To lose itself in a fog; where being three parts melted away withrotten dews, the fourth would return for conscience' sake, tohelp to get thee a wife. O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night, Black, fearful, comfortless, and horrible. Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip? Some bloody passion shakes your very frame. ExitGURNEY Madam, I was not old Sir Robert's son; Sir Robert might have eat his part in me Upon Good Friday, and ne'er broke his fast. He call'd me father:But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him;A mile before his tent fall down, and kneeThe way into his mercy: nay, if he coy'dTo hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home. I pray you be not angry with me, madam, Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick, For shape, for bearing, argument, and valour, Goes foremost in report through Italy. This kiss, if it durst speak, Would stretch thy spirits up into the air. As for the mercy Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia The battle done, and they within our power, Shall never see his pardon; for my state Stands on me to defend, not to debate. A king of beasts, indeed! If aught but beasts, I had been still a happy king of men. I pray you have a continent forbearancetill the speed of his rage goes slower; and, as I say, retirewith me to my lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to hear my lord speak. Put on what weary negligence you please, You and your fellows. I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed unhappily:as of unnaturalness between the child and the parent; death, dearth, dissolutions of ancient amities; divisions in state, menaces and maledictions against king and nobles; needless diffidences, b EreI leade this life long, Ile sowe nether stockes, and mendthem too. O heavy deed! It had been so with us, had we been there: His liberty is full of threats to all; To you yourself, to us, to every one. Tell her I send to her my kind commends; Take special care my greetings be delivered. But were I not the better part made mercy, I should not seek an absent argument Of my revenge, thou present. The Ottomites, reverend and gracious, Steering with due course toward the isle of Rhodes, Have there injointed them with an after fleet. Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting, proud,violent, testy magistrates,--alias fools,--as any in Rome. --Whiles I threat, he lives;Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives. Well, an you be not turn'd Turk, there's no more sailingby the star. Let it be who it is, for Romans now Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors. How now, my noble friend? Since I came hither (Which I can call but now) I have heard strange news. Now then, we'll use His countenance for the battle, which being done, Let her who would be rid of him devise His speedy taking off. We do require them of you, so to use them As we shall find their merits and our safety May equally determine. Princes, and noble lords, What answer shall I make to this base man? Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars On equal terms to give him chastisement? Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd With the attainder of his slanderous lips. Where is the Liuing, clipt in with the Sea,That chides the Bankes of England, Scotland, and Wales,Which calls me Pupill, or hath read to me?And bring him out, that is but Womans Sonne,Can trace me in the tedious wayes of Art,And hold me pace in deepe expBefore my God, I might not this believe Without the sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. [reads from a scroll] Epitaph. And so will he do; for the man doth fear God, howsoeverit seems not in him by some large jests he will make. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god-kissing carrion,?ave you a daughter? Pol. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio, And much offence too. Lords, giue vs leaue:The Prince of Wales, and I,Must haue some priuate conference:But be neere at hand,For wee shall presently haue neede of you. The fellow is distract, and so am I; And here we wander in illusions. He's gone into Smithfield to buy your worshipa horse Fal. So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe, And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir. He had so, looking as it were,--would I were hanged, but Ithought there was more in him than I could think. [Leapsdown] O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones. If I heard you rightly, The Duke hath put on a religious life, And thrown into neglect the pompous court. Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to carefor her frowning. I have been i' the market-place; and, sir, 'tis fitYou make strong party, or defend yourselfBy calmness or by absence: all's in anger. My lord, I would I might entreat your honor To scan this thing no further; leave it to time. O mistress, villainy hath made mocks with love! My husband say that she was false! OTHELLO. What is thy name, that in battel thus y crossest me?What honor dost thou seeke vpon my head? Dow. O dear Phebe, If everas that ever may be near You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy, Then shall you know the wounds invisible That love's keen arrows make. And him, O wondrous! him,O Miracle of Men! Him did you leaue(Second to none) vn-seconded by you,To looke vpon the hideous God of Warre,In dis-aduantage, to abide a field,Where nothing but the sound of Hotspurs NameDid seeme defensible: so you left him. Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,Profit again should hardly draw me here. Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,34 But not express? in fancy; rich, not gaudy: For the apparel oft proclaims the man; And they in France of the best rank and station Are most select and generous chief in that. It is the witness still of excellency To put a strange face on his own perfection. You all did love him once, not without cause; What cause withholds you then to mourn for him? O judgement, thou art fled to brutish beasts, And men have lost their reason. [Enter three or four CONSPIRATORS of AUFIDIUS' faction. I say unto you, what he hath done famously he did it to that end:though soft-conscienced men can be content to say it was for hiscountry, he did it to please his mother, and to be partly proud;which he is, even to the altitude of his virtue. Our spoils he kick'd at;And looked upon things precious as they wereThe common muck of the world: he covets lessThan misery itself would give; rewardsHis deeds with doing them; and is contentTo spend the time to end it. Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at thenext turning. Alack, why am I sent for to a king, Before I have shook off the regal thoughts Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my knee. By this, I think, the dial points at five; Anon, I'm sure, the Duke himself in person Comes this way to the melancholy vale, The place of death and sorry execution, Behind the ditches of the abbey here. Infirm of purpose!Give me the daggers: the sleeping and the deadAre but as pictures: 'tis the eye of childhoodThat fears a painted devil. Within this hour it will be dinner-time; Till that, I'll view the manners of the town, Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings, And then return and sleep within mine inn; For with long travel I am stiff and weary. Note me this, good friend;Your most grave belly was deliberate,Not rash like his accusers, and thus answer'd:'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,'That I receive the general food at firstWhich you do live upon; and fit it is,Because I am the stOur very priests must become mockers if they shall encounter suchridiculous subjects as you are. The poor world is almostsix thousand years old, and in all this time there was not anyman died in his own person, videlicet, in a love-cause. But I have heard him oft maintain it to befit that, sons at perfect age, and fathers declining, the father should be as ward to the son, and the son manage hisrevenue. I well allow the occasion of our Armes,But gladly would be better satisfied,How (in our Meanes) we should aduance our seluesTo looke with forhead bold and big enoughVpon the Power and puisance of the King Hast. God be with my old master! He would not havespoke such a word. Dost thou hear, Iago? I will be found most cunning in my patience; But (dost thou hear?) most bloody. Masters, play here, I will content your pains;Something that's brief; and bid "Good morrow, general. To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much. And so there is, but yet the King hath DrawneThe speciall head of all the Land together:The Prince of Wales, Lord Iohn of Lancaster,The Noble Westmerland, and warlike Blunt;And many moe Corriuals, and deare menOf estimation, and command in Armes Sir M. Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth, Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense; But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom, And heavy-gaited toads, lie in their way, Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet Which with usurping steps do tr In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you excellent newsof your husband. Which of them shall I take? Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd, If both remain alive. But wherefore do you hold me here so long? What is it that you would impart to me? If it be aught toward the general good, Set honor in one eye and death i' the other And I will look on both indifferently. Man, more divine, the master of all these, Lord of the wide world and wild wat'ry seas, Indu'd with intellectual sense and souls, Of more pre-eminence than fish and fowls, Are masters to their females, and their lords; Then let your will attend on their The gods be good to us!--Come, masters, let's home. [Within] My liege, beware; look to thyself; Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there. Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber; Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies, Which busy care draws in the brains of men; Therefore thou sleep'st so sound. I am sorry to find you thus; I have been to seek you. So hangs and lolls and weeps upon me; so hales andpulls me. When he is return'd, Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial. Hereafter, in a better world than this, I shall desire more love and knowledge of you. Thy due, from me,Is Teares, and heauie Sorrowes of the Blood,Which Nature, Loue, and filiall tendernesse,Shall (O deare Father) pay thee plenteously. Did not you hear a cry? CASSIO. What is about to be?--I am out of breath;Confusion's near: I cannot speak. Let me be your servant; Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty; For in my youth I never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood, Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo The means of weakness and debility; Therefore my age is as a lusty wi Breathe you, my friends: well fought; we are come offLike Romans, neither foolish in our standsNor cowardly in retire: believe me, sirs,We shall be charg'd again. Well could I bear that England had this praise, So we could find some pattern of our shame. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill? i?the Capitol; Brutus killed me. Herein all breathless lies The mightiest of thy greatest enemies, Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought. Then, good my liege, let me have what is mine, My father's land, as was my father's will. Work on, My medicine, work! Thus credulous fools are caught, And many worthy and chaste dames even thus, All guiltless, meet reproach. Were half to half the world by the ears, and heUpon my party, I'd revolt, to makeOnly my wars with him: he is a lionThat I am proud to hunt. I never did like molestation view On the enchafed flood. With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the skirtsof the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat. Marry, sir, in her buttocks; I found it outby the bogs. [aside] How should this be? Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow, Ang'ring itself and others. Andnow tell me, how doth your cousin? Beat. Nought shall make us rue, If England to itself do rest but true. This visitation Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose. O, sir, sir, sir,I would have had you put your power well onBefore you had worn it out. May we do so? You know it is the feast of Lupercal. Away you Cut-purse Rascall, you filthy Bung,away: By this Wine, Ile thrust my Knife in your mouldieChappes, if you play the sawcie Cuttle with me. Hathyour Grace ne'er a brother like you? Your father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them. I haue heard the Prince tell him, I know nothow oft, that that Ring was Copper Falst. I pray you, in your letters, When you shall these unlucky deeds relate, Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate, Nor set down aught in malice. I was prickt well enough before, if you couldhaue let me alone: my old Dame will be vndone now, forone to doe her Husbandry, and her Drudgery; you neednot to haue prickt me, there are other men fitter to goeout, then I Fal. And I can teach thee, Cousin, to shame the Deuil,By telling truth. Do you not read some tokens of my son In the large composition of this man? KING JOHN. Gracious my lord,I should report that which I say I saw,But know not how to do it. Why, Percy I kill'd my selfe, and saw thee dead Fal. To tak't again perforce! Monster ingratitude! Fool. O my mother, mother! O!You have won a happy victory to Rome;But for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,If not most mortal to him. Think upon me! Hang 'em! I would they would forget me, like the virtuesWhich our divines lose by 'em. Ile procure this fat Rogue a Charge of Foot,and I know his death will be a Match of Twelue-score. Now near enough; your leafy screens throw down,And show like those you are. So shall I, love; and so, I pray, be you:Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue:Unsafe the while, that weMust lave our honors in these flattering streams;And make our faces vizards to our hearts,Disguising whaWorthy Montano, you were wont be civil; The gravity and stillness of your youth The world hath noted, and your name is great In mouths of wisest censure. [Enter, with drum and colours, Malcolm, old Siward and his Son,Macduff, Menteith, Caithness, Angus, Lennox, Ross, and Soldiers,marching. Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius, That you would have me seek into myself For that which is not in me? CASSIUS. What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler,thou, I am thy prisoner. Ile tell thee what, thou thin man in a Censor; Iwill haue you as soundly swindg'd for this, you blewBottel'dRogue: you filthy famish'd Correctioner, if yoube not swing'd, Ile forsweare halfe Kirtles Off. Rashly, And prais? be rashness for it,?et us know, Our indiscretion sometime serves us well, When our deep plots do fail; and that should teach us There? a divinity that shapes our ends, Rough-hew them how we will. O thou fond Many, with what loud applauseDid'st thou beate heauen with blessing Bullingbrooke,Before he was, what thou would'st haue him be?And being now trimm'd in thine owne desires,Thou (beastly Feeder) art so full of him,That thou prouok'st thy selfeIn most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for the love of Beatrice. But that I am forbid To tell the secrets of my prison-house, I could a tale unfold whose lightest word Would harrow up thy soul; freeze thy young blood; Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres; Thy knotted and combined locks to part, And What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead? I that am cruel am yet merciful; I would not have thee linger in thy pain. Enter CHATILLON KING PHILIP. Heare ye Yedward, if I tarry at home and go not,Ile hang you for going Poy. Boy! O slave!--Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that everI was forc'd to scold. If she live long, And in the end meet the old course of death, Women will all turn monsters. Yea, or to paint himself? for the which I hear what theysay of him. If Marcius should be join'd wi' the Volscians,--COMINIUS. And they are often tarr'd over with the surgery of our sheep; and would you have us kiss tar? The courtier's handsare perfum'd with civet. He that no more must say is listen'd more Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose; More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before. What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night? CASSIUS. Aumerle that was But that is lost for being Richard's friend, And madam, you must call him Rudand now. Why, here walk I in the black brow of night To find you out. Pluck buthis name out of his heart, and turn him going. What is the reason of this terrible summons? What is the matter there? RODERIGO. You call honorable Boldnes, impudent Sawcinesse:If a man wil curt'sie, and say nothing, he is vertuous: No,my Lord (your humble duty reme[m]bred) I will not be yoursutor. [Music and song within, "Come away, come away" &c. Ah, do not tear away thyself from me; For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall A drop of water in the breaking gulf, And take unmingled thence that drop again Without addition or diminishing, As take from me thyself, and not me too. Come, thou shalt go to the Warres in a Gowne:we will haue away thy Cold, and I will take such order,that thy friends shall ring for thee. Whose tongue soe'er speaks false, Not truly speaks; who speaks not truly, lies. The trumpets sound, and the KING enters with his nobles, GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and others. I must weep, But they are cruel tears; this sorrow's heavenly, It strikes where it doth love. Were not my doors lock'd up and I shutout?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life, Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields Shall not regreet our fair dominions, But tread the stranger paths of banishment. Nor nothing in your letters writ of her? BRUTUS. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow? shadow. But who did bid thee join with us?THIRD MURDERER. How came he dead? I?l not be juggled with: To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil! Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit! I dare damnation:?o this point I stand,?That both the worlds, I give to negligence, Let come what comes; only I?l  The word of Peace is render'd: hearke howthey showt Mow. What man dare, I dare:Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;Take any shape but that, and my firm nervesShall never tremble: or be alive again,And dare me to the desert with thy sword;If trembling I inhabit tNeither a borrower nor a lender be: For loan oft loses both itself and friend; And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry. If you have victory, let the trumpet sound For him that brought it. But, poor old man, thou prun'st a rotten tree That cannot so much as a blossom yield In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry. To make that worse, suffer'd his Kinsman March,Who is, if euery Owner were plac'd,Indeede his King, to be engag'd in Wales,There, without Ransome, to lye forfeited:Disgrac'd me in my happie Victories,Sought to intrap me by intelligence,Rated my Vnckle frWhere have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight, I am mightily abus'd. Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in todinner. We were not born to sue, but to command; Which since we cannot do to make you friends, Be ready, as your lives shall answer it, At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day. A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the King. Look here, Iago, All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven. Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name With any just reproach? Claud. Death hath not strucke so fat a Deere to day,Though many dearer in this bloody Fray:Imbowell'd will I see thee by and by,Till then, in blood, by Noble Percie lye. So are the Prince and Claudio, who accus'd her Upon the error that you heard debated. Hang thou there upon the tomb, [Hangs up the scroll. But who comes in such haste in riding-robes? What woman-post is this? Hath she no husband That will take pains to blow a horn before her? Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE, and JAMES GURNEY O me, 'tis my mother! How now, good lady! What brings you here to court  Philip, my liege, so is my name begun: Philip, good old Sir Robert's wife's eldest son. Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have That mercy which true prayer ought to have. Let me go with you; I'll do the service of a younger man In all your business and necessities. In the name of God, How comes it then that thou art call'd a king, When living blood doth in these temples beat Which owe the crown that thou o'er-masterest? KING JOHN. If such tricks asthese strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had been better youhad not kissed your three fingers so oft, which now again you are most apt to play the sir in. My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well The very time Aumerle and you did talk. Why, know you not? The lords are all come back, And brought Prince Henry in their company; At whose request the King hath pardon'd them, And they are all about his Majesty. Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage. That he should draw his seuerall strengths togitherAnd come against vs in full puissanceNeed not be dreaded Hast. I had well hop'd thou wouldst have denied Beatrice, thatI might have cudgell'd thee out of thy single life, to makethee a double-dealer, which out of question thou wilt be if mycousin do not look exceeding narrowly to thee. The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes; And quite lost their hearts; the nobles hath he find For ancient quarrels and quite lost their hearts. If that the KingHaue any way your good Deserts forgot,Which he confesseth to be manifold,He bids you name your Griefes, and with all speedYou shall haue your desires, with interest;And Pardon absolute for your selfe, and these,Herein mis-led, by your su Not a whit, we defy augury: there? a special providence in the fall of a sparrow. Philip, make up: My mother is assailed in our tent, And ta'en, I fear. In God's name and the King's, say who thou art, And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms; Against what man thou com'st, and what thy quarrel. Allow not nature more than nature needs, Man's life is cheap as beast's. Do you not know I am a woman? When I think, I mustspeak. If he did not care whether he had their love or no, he wavedindifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm; but heseeks their hate with greater devotion than they can render ithim; and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover him theiroppositAnd heere I draw a Sword,Whose worthy temper I intend to staineWith the best blood that I can meete withall,In the aduenture of this perillous day. I wonder that thou (being, as thou say'st thou art, born under Saturn) goest about to apply a moral medicine to a mortifying mischief. Enter NORTHUMBERLAND Welcome, my lord. If that an eye may profit by a tongue, Then should I know you by description Such garments, and such years: 'The boy is fair, Of female favour, and bestows himself Like a ripe sister; the woman low, And browner than her brother. [Exeunt other Servants. Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters? Lear. O cursed, cursed slave! Whip me, ye devils, From the possession of this heavenly sight! Blow me about in winds! Roast me in sulphur! Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire! O Desdemon! dead, Desdemon! dead! O! O! O! Enter Lodovico, Montano, Cassio c My Lord Aumerle, is Harry Hereford arm'd? AUMERLE. But to speake truth,This present greefe had wip'd it from my minde. Euen such Kin, as the Parish Heyfors are to theTowne-Bull?Shall we steale vpon them (Ned) at Supper? Poin. Hadst thou groan'd for him As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful. Enter LE BEAU ROSALIND. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the time gives it proof. Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry! Take the fool with thee. Enter WILLIAM TOUCHSTONE. I have brokewith her father, and his good will obtained. Why, then my cousin, Margaret, and Ursula Are much deceiv'd; for they did swear you did. What, did my father's godson seek your life? He whom my father nam'd? Your Edgar? Glou. I pray you, is Signior Mountanto return'd from the warsor no? Mess. If she sustain him and his hundred knights, When I have show'd th' unfitness Enter [Oswald the] Steward. As true as I believe you think them false That give you cause to prove my saying true. He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much gladof it. Alas, he gets nothing by that! In our last conflict fourof his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole mangovern'd with one; so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm,let him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse;for i He call'd her whore; a beggar in his drink Could not have laid such terms upon his callet. Then I, as one that am the tongue of these, To sound the purposes of all their hearts, Both for myself and thembut, chief of all, Your safety, for the which myself and them Bend their best studies, heartily request Th' enfranchisement of Arthur, whose r We'll lay before this town our royal bones, Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen's blood, But we will make it subject to this boy. Enter Desdemona with Emilia. Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not marriage honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord honourable without marriage? I think you would have me say, 'saving yourreverence, a husband. I am old now, And these same crosses spoil me. No seconds? All myself? Why, this would make a man a man of salt, To use his eyes for garden waterpots, Ay, and laying autumn's dust. In your lord's scale is nothing but himself, And some few vanities that make him light; But in the balance of great Bolingbroke, Besides himself, are all the English peers, And with that odds he weighs King Richard down. Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert; Or, Hubert, if you will, cut out my tongue, So I may keep mine eyes. A crow without feather? Master, mean you so? For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather; If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together. 32 For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour, Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood: A violet in the youth of primy nature, Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting; The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more. O, ay!-[Aside to Pedro] Stalk on, stalk on; the fowlsits. One more, and this the last; So sweet was ne'er so fatal. [To the Fool] And thou, his yokefellow of equity, Bench by his side. Well, maist thou haue the Spirit of perswasion;and he the eares of profiting, that what thou speakest,may moue; and what he heares may be beleeued, that thetrue Prince, may (for recreation sake) proue a false theefe;for the poore abuses of the time, wan SO, Come, help: well struck! there was blowfor blow. --When you are hearing a matterbetween party and party, if you chance to be pinched with thecolic, you make faces like mummers, set up the bloody flagagainst all patience, and, in roaring for a chamber-pot, dismissthe controversy bleeding, the more entanBring forth men-children only;For thy undaunted mettle should composeNothing but males. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too; My operant powers their functions leave to do: And thou shalt live in this fair world behind, Honour?, belov?, and haply one as kind For husband shalt thou,?P. What neede I bee so forward with him,that call's not on me? Well, 'tis no matter, Honor prickesme on. What was it you told me of to-day? that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick? Claud. It is no shame; the fellow finds his vein, And, yielding to him, humours well his frenzy. My lord, my lord! What, ho! my lord, my lord! OTHELLO. If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her patent to offend, for, if it touch not you, it comes near nobody. Thou'lt not believe With how deprav'd a qualityO Regan! Reg. do not say 'stand up'; Say 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up. If it be true, all vengeance comes too short Which can pursue th' offender. [to Claudio] Means your lordship to be married tomorrow? Pedro. But, turning these jests out of service, let us talkin good earnest. My lord, you play? once i?the university, you say? [To Polonius. Nay, lay thee down and roar; For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent That e'er did lift up eye. [Rising] A wicked day, and not a holy day! What hath this day deserv'd? what hath it done That it in golden letters should be set Among the high tides in the calendar? Nay, rather turn this day out of the week, This day of shame, oppression, perjury; Or Pray now, no more: my mother,Who has a charter to extol her blood,When she does praise me grieves me. Why so it would haue done at the same season,if your Mothers Cat had but kitten'd, though your selfehad neuer beene borne Glend. Then tell us, shall your city call us lord In that behalf which we have challeng'd it; Or shall we give the signal to our rage, And stalk in blood to our possession? CITIZEN. My Father Glendower is not readie yet,Nor shall wee neede his helpe these foureteene dayes:Within that space, you may haue drawne togetherYour Tenants, Friends, and neighbouring Gentlemen Glend. And yet I know not how conceit may rob The treasury of life when life itself Yields to the theft. Think it no more: For nature, crescent, does not grow alone In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes, The inward service of the mind and soul Grows wide withal. Here, sir; I'd have beaten him like a dog, but fordisturbing the lords within. Then you will bring the chain to her yourself?ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. It is a branch and parcel of mine oath, A charitable duty of my order; Therefore depart, and leave him here with me. Was there ever any man thus beaten out ofseason, When in the why and the wherefore is neither rhyme nor reason? Well, sir, I thank you. Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the contract of her marriage and the day it is solemniz'd; if the interim be but a se'nnight, Time's pace is so hard that itseems the length of seven year. Know my name is lost; By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit. If I do grow great again,Ile grow lesse? For Ile purge, and leaue Sacke, and liuecleanly, as a Nobleman should do. He is the only man of Italy, Always excepted my dear Claudio. It shall be so, it shall be so; let him away;He's banished, and it shall be so. [Enter with drum and colours, Macbeth, Seyton, and Soldiers. I would not be a Roman, of all nations; I had as lief be acondemned man. If life did ride vpon a Dials point,Still ending at the arriuall of an houre,And if we liue, we liue to treade on Kings:If dye; braue death, when Princes dye with vs. That misbegotten devil, Faulconbridge, In spite of spite, alone upholds the day. O, how fullof briers is this working-day world! CELIA. Sir Robert could do: well-marry, to confess Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it: We know his handiwork. Fut! I should have been that I am, had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on mybastardizing. See how yond justice rails upon yond simple thief. March on, my fellows;Make good this ostentation, and you shallDivide in all with us. Iwill be more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over hishen, more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more new-fangledthan an ape, more giddy in my desires than a monkey. Tear him to pieces, do it presently:--he killed my son; mydaughter; he killed my cousin Marcus; he killed my father,--SECOND LORD. What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel andmake him my waiting gentlewoman? He that hath a beard is more thana youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and hethat is more than a youth is not for me; and he that is less thana man,  Portia, go in awhile, And by and by thy bosom shall partake The secrets of my heart. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to you,82 trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it, as many of your players do, I had as lief the town crier spoke my lines. Heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him! Queen. So angle we for Beatrice, who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture. God save the King! although I be not he; And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me. Fly, noble English, you are bought and sold; Unthread the rude eye of rebellion, And welcome home again discarded faith. Hee that rides at high speede, and with a Pistollkills a Sparrow flying Falst. But yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood against the world. There's a girl goes before thepriest; and, certainly, a woman's thought runs before her actions. Look you lay home to him: Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with, And that your grace hath screen? and stood between Much heat and him. Now my sick fool Roderigo, Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out, To Desdemona hath tonight caroused Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch. A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with asafe conscience, which is indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles. Who's there? EMILIA. Very well; and could be content to give him good report for't,but that he pays himself with being proud. Fair sir, I pity her, And wish, for her sake more than for mine own, My fortunes were more able to relieve her; But I am shepherd to another man, And do not shear the fleeces that I graze. His rudeness so with his authorized youth Did livery falseness in a pride of truth. Who can be wise, amaz'd, temperate, and furious,Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man:The expedition of my violent loveOutrun the pauser reason. I make them? Gluttonie and Diseases makethem, I make them not Falst. Examples, gross as earth, exhort me: Witness this army, of such mass and charge, Led by a delicate and tender prince; Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff ?, Makes mouths at the invisible event;117 Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that fortu First, for his weeping into the needless stream: 'Poor deer,' quoth he 'thou mak'st a testament As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more To that which had too much. Good my friends,If you have heard your general talk of RomeAnd of his friends there, it is lots to blanksMy name hath touch'd your ears: it is Menenius. Marry, the immortall part needes a Physitian:but that moues not him: though that bee sicke, it dyesnot Prince. But I do see you're moved; I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues nor to larger reach Than to suspicion. I remember at Mile-end-Greene, when I layat Clements Inne, I was then Sir Dagonet in ArthursShow: there was a little quiuer fellow, and hee wouldmanage you his Peece thus: and hee would about,and about, and come you in, and come you in: Rah,tah, tah, wo All disconsolate, With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill. Our preparation stands In expectation of them. Then if thou hastA heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revengeThine own particular wrongs, and stop those maimsOf shame seen through thy country, speed thee straightAnd make my misery serve thy turn: so use itThat my revengeful services may proveAs benefi Do you know Where we may apprehend her and the Moor? RODERIGO. There is a thing,Harry, which thou hast often heard of, and it is knowne tomany in our Land, by the Name of Pitch: this Pitch (asancient Writers doe report) doth defile; so doth the companiethou keepest: for Harry, now I doe not speake tothee in Drinke, If she be black, and thereto have a wit, She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit. Alack, bareheaded? Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel; Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest. Come, seeling night,Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day;And with thy bloody and invisible handCancel and tear to pieces that great bondWhich keeps me pale!--Light thickens; and the crowMakes wing to the rooky wood:Good things of day begin to droop an Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour, With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch. Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal? [Strikes him. I know you can do very little alone; for your helps are many, orelse your actions would grow wondrous single: your abilities aretoo infant-like for doing much alone. Of this matter Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made, That only wounds by hearsay. Officers, what offence have these men done? Dog. Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT KING JOHN. Some to the common pulpits and cry out "Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!" BRUTUS. If I know this, know all the world besides, That part of tyranny that I do bear I can shake off at pleasure. Besides, it were a mock Apt to be render'd, for someone to say "Break up the Senate till another time, When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams. But I have spokeWith one that saw him die: who did report,That very frankly he confess'd his treasons;Implor'd your highness' pardon; and set forthA deep repentance: nothing in his lifeBecame him like the leaving it; he diedAs one that had been studied  In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence From forth the noise and rumour of the field, Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts In peace, and part this body and my soul With contemplation and devout desires. [ADAM retires] OLIVER. Hold your hand, my lord! I have serv'd you ever since I was a child; But better service have I never done you Than now to bid you hold. Who keepes the Gate heere hoa?Where is the Earle? Por. Enter Lear and Gloucester Lear. What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! how infinite in faculties! in form and moving, how express and admirable! in action how like an angel! in apprehension, how like a god! the65 beauty of the world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,  Holla, Dennis! Enter DENNIS DENNIS. WelGod be thanked for these Rebels, they offend none butthe Vertuous. To have no man come over me? Why, shall I always keepbelow stairs? Bene. You, mistress, That have the office opposite to Saint Peter, And keep the gate of hell! Re-enter Emilia. ' I have but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a wondrous fat marriage. Have I not hideous death within my view, Retaining but a quantity of life, Which bleeds away even as a form of wax Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire? What in the world should make me now deceive, Since I must lose the use of all deceit? Why sho What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head? Why dost thou look so sadly on my son? What means that hand upon that breast of thine? Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum, Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds? Be these sad signs confirmers of th I would not marry her though she were endowed with allthat Adam had left him before he transgress'd. Edmund, I arrest thee On capital treason; and, in thine attaint, This gilded serpent [points to Goneril]. When thou dost heare I am, as I haue bin,Approach me, and thou shalt be as thou was'tThe Tutor and the Feeder of my Riots:Till then, I banish thee, on paine of death,As I haue done the rest of my Misleaders,Not to come neere our Person, by ten mile. Sirra, I am sworn brother to a leash ofDrawers, and can call them by their names, as Tom, Dicke,and Francis. Now, sweet lord, You know the goodness I intend upon you. A man is well holp up that trusts to you! I promised your presence and the chain; But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me. Come on, sir knave, have done yourfoolishness, And tell me how thou hast dispos'd thy charge. And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life! Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life, And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more, Never, never, never, never, never! Pray you undo this button. In what particular thought to work I know not; But, in the gross and scope of my opinion, This bodes some strange eruption to our state. How I came by the Crowne, O heauen forgiue:And grant it may, with thee, in true peace liue Prince. From henceforth bear his name whose form thoubearest: Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great Arise Sir Richard and Plantagenet. O monstrous! eleuen Buckrom men growneout of two? Falst. [A charge sounded] Stay, the King hath thrown his warder down. My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it. My Lord of Yorke, it better shew'd with you,When that your Flocke (assembled by the Bell)Encircled you, to heare with reuerenceYour exposition on the holy Text,Then now to see you heere an Iron manChearing a rowt of Rebels with your Drumme,Turning the WoUp from my cabin, My sea-gown scarf ? about me, in the dark Grop? I to find out them: had my desire; Finger? their packet; and, in fine, withdrew To mine own room again: making so bold, My fears forgetting manners, to unseal Their grand commission; wher This is the very coinage of your brain:105 This bodiless creation ecstasy Is very cunning in. 'Thus merely with the garment of a Grace The naked and concealed fiend he covered, That th' unexperient gave the tempter place, Which, like a cherubin, above them hovered. Moreknocking at the doore? How now? what's the matter? Bard. Sirrah, you boy, and Bardolph, no word to yourMaster that I am yet in Towne. Old men and beldams in the streets Do prophesy upon it dangerously; Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths; And when they talk of him, they shake their heads, And whisper one another in the ear; And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,  O you mighty gods! He kneels. He was not three leagues offwhen I left him. Concerning this, sirO well-painted passion! I am commanded home. That which upholdeth him that thee upholds, His honour. BOLINGBROKE'S camp at BristolEnter BOLINGBROKE, YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, PERCY, ROSS, WILLOUGHBY,BUSHY and GREEN, prisoners BOLINGBROKE. Mouldie, and Bull-calfe: for you Mouldie, stayat home, till you are past seruice: and for your part, Bull-calfe,grow till you come vnto it: I will none of you Shal. I have too few to take my leave of you, When the tongue's office should be prodigal To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart. We hate alike:Not Afric owns a serpent I abhorMore than thy fame and envy. Scratches with briers,Scars to move laughter only. Thanks for that:There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fledHath nature that in time will venom breed,No teeth for the present. As I intend to thrive in this new world, Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal. And thou wert best look to't; for if thou dost him any slight disgrace, or if he do not mightily grace himself on thee, he will practise against thee by poison,entrap thee by some treacherous device, and never leave thee till he hath ta'en thy life by s Reuenge the geering and disdain'd contemptOf this proud King, who studies day and nightTo answer all the Debt he owes vnto you,Euen with the bloody Payment of your deaths:Therefore I say Wor. He ask'd the way to Chester: And of himI did demand what Newes from Shrewsbury:He told me, that Rebellion had ill lucke,And that yong Harry Percies Spurre was cold. Whatyou want in meate, wee'l haue in drinke: but you beare,the heart's all Shal. [Within] Break any breaking here, and I'll break your knave's pate. --Let us revenge this with our pikes ere we becomerakes: for the gods know I speak this in hunger for bread, not inthirst for revenge. Out, vile jelly! Where is thy lustre now? Glou. It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus washing herhands: I have known her continue in this a quarter of an hour. Whiles I may scape, I will preserve myself; and am bethought To take the basest and most poorest shape That ever penury, in contempt of man, Brought near to beast. Awayyou Bottle-Ale Rascall, you Basket-hilt stale Iugler, you. Then turn your forces from this paltry siege And stir them up against a mightier task. I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair werea thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i'faith. O Gertrude, Gertrude, When sorrows come, they come not single spies, But in battalions! First, her father slain: Next, your son gone; and he most violent author Of his own just remove: the people muddied, Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and  Doe you thinke me a Swallow, an Arrow,or a Bullet? Haue I, in my poore and olde Motion,the expedition of Thought? I haue speeded hither withthe very extremest ynch of possibilitie. Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,Witch's mummy, maw and gulfOf the ravin'd salt-sea shark,Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,Liver of blaspheming Jew,Gall of goat, and slips of yewSliver'd in the moon's eclipse,Nose of Turk, and Tartar's lips,Finger of birBid Mistris Teare-sheet come to my Master Host. Tell us where ?is, that we may take it thence, And bear it to the chapel. How light and portable my pain seems now, When that which makes me bend makes the King bow, He childed as I fathered! Tom, away! Mark the high noises, and thyself bewray When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee, In thy just proof repeals and For Gods sake Lords, conuey my trustfull Queen,For teares doe stop the floud-gates of her eyes Hostesse. Ay, who doubts that? A will, a wicked will; A woman's will; a cank'red grandam's will! KING PHILIP. We are accounted poor citizens; the patricians good. ' That's as much as to say, 'Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks. --But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs:Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;The one side must have bale. Therefore, at your vantage,Ere he express himself or move the peopleWith what he would say, let him feel your sword,Which we will second. I will giue thee for it a thousand pound: Askeme when thou wilt, and thou shalt haue it Poin. My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge To keep him safely till his day of trial. What canst thou say but will perplex thee more, If thou stand excommunicate and curs'd? KING PHILIP. My lord, I will use them according to their desert. Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part To take on me to keep and kill thy heart. Ere you go, hear this,--As far as doth the Capitol exceedThe meanest house in Rome, so far my son,--This lady's husband here; this, do you see?--Whom you have banish'd does exceed you all. Therefore put you in your best array, bid your friends; for if you will be married to-morrow, you shall; andto Rosalind, if you will. My lord, I did; But answer made it none: yet once methought It lifted up it head, and did address Itself to motion, like as it would speak: But even then the morning cock crew loud, And at the sound it shrunk in haste away, And vanish? from our sight. Nay, good lieutenant! God's will, gentlemen! Help, ho!LieutenantsirMontanosir Help, masters!Here's a goodly watch indeed! A bellrings. A most royal one; the centurions and their charges, distinctlybilleted, already in the entertainment, and to be on foot at anhour's warning. Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath, The traitor lives, the true man's put to death. If arguing make us sweat, The proof of it will turn to redder drops. Wheresoever you had it, I'lltake out no work on't. Is it not yours?What ever have been thought on in this state,That could be brought to bodily act ere RomeHad circumvention! 'Tis not four days goneSince I heard thence; these are the words: I thinkI have the letter here;yes, here it is:[Reads. I think, withal,There would be hands uplifted in my right;And here, from gracious England, have I offerOf goodly thousands: but, for all this,When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor countryShall have more vices than So 'tis to thee; But where the greater malady is fix'd, The lesser is scarce felt. Come, Desdemona, I have but an hour Of love, of worldly matters and direction, To spend with thee. Ay, by and by;But we'll drink together; and you shall bearA better witness back than words, which we,On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd. O 'tis our Setter, I know his voyce:Bardolfe, what newes? Bar. They embrace, the trumpets sound, the King entereth with hispower, alarumvnto the battell. My liege, her ear Is stopp'd with dust: the first of April died Your noble mother; and as I hear, my lord, The Lady Constance in a frenzy died Three days before; but this from rumour's tongue I idly heard-if true or false I know not. How still the evening is, As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony! Pedro. You know sometimes he walks for hours together Here in the lobby. Give first admittance to the ambassadors; My news shall be the fruit to that great feast. If then thou be Sonne to mee, heerelyeth the point: why, being Sonne to me, art thou sopoynted at? Shall the blessed Sonne of Heauen proue aMicher, and eate Black-berryes? a question not to beeaskt. Enter Don Pedro, Claudio, Benedick, Balthasar, and John theBastard. But who comes here? Enter HARRY PERCY NORTHUMBERLAND. This, Casca; this, Cinna; and this, Metellus Cimber. A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' th' forest, A motley fool. You are my father, for methinks in you I see old Gaunt alive. Thou are too like the spirit of Banquo; down!Thy crown does sear mine eyeballs:--and thy hair,Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first;--A third is like the former. They say King John, sore sick, hath left the field. To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. A great perturbation in nature,--to receive at once thebenefit of sleep, and do the effects of watching-In thisslumbery agitation, besides her walking and other actualperformances, what, at any time, have you heard her say?GENTLEWOMAN. O grace! O heaven defend me! Are you a man? have you a soul or sense? God be wi' you; take mine office. That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud and loves not thecommon people. For one of them, shee is in Hell alreadie, andburnes poore Soules: for the other, I owe her Money;and whether shee bee damn'd for that, I knownot Host. This is a slave, whose easy-borrowed pride Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are68 the only men. How is it, general? Have you not hurt your head? OTHELLO. Crown him that, And then, I grant, we put a sting in him That at his will he may do danger with. Farewell great heart:Ill-weau'd Ambition, how much art thou shrunke?When that this bodie did containe a spirit,A Kingdome for it was too small a bound:But now two paces of the vilest EarthIs roome enough. What, ho! My lord! My lord, I say! Othello! Enter Cassio. But if I give my wife a handkerchief OTHELLO. First, in this forest let us do those ends That here were well begun and well begot; And after, every of this happy number, That have endur'd shrewd days and nights with us, Shall share the good of our returned fortune, According to the measure of their It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poorDuke's officers; but truly, for mine own part, if I were as tediousas a king, I could find in my heart to bestow it all of yourworship. Let him come back, that his compassion may Give life to yours. Alltheheere haue forgiuen me, if the Gentlemen will not, then theGentlemendo not agree with the Gentlewomen, which was neuer seenebefore, in such anAsOne word more, I beseech you: if you be not too much cloid withFat Meate,our humble Author will continu --Nay, mother,Where is your ancient courage? you were us'dTo say extremities was the trier of spirits;That common chances common men could bear;That when the sea was calm all boats alikeShow'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,When most struck homeLove lacked a dwelling and made him her place; And when in his fair parts she did abide, She was new lodged and newly deified. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world? EMILIA. Take up, take up! And follow me, that will to some provision Give thee quick conduct. My Nephewes Trespasse may be well forgot,It hath the excuse of youth, and heate of blood,And an adopted name of Priuiledge,A haire-brain'd Hotspurre, gouern'd by a Spleene:All his offences liue vpon my head,And on his Fathers. Let them alone:The Marshall and the Arch-bishop are strong. Back, I say; go, lest I let forthyour half pint of blood;--back; that's the utmost of yourhaving:--back. ExeuntLORDS BASTARD. Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick. Having determined of the Volsces, andTo send for Titus Lartius, it remains,As the main point of this our after-meeting,To gratify his noble service thatHath thus stood for his country: therefore please you,Most reverend and grave elders, to desireThe preHe, woman; I say thy husband. Here the street is narrow, The throng that follows Caesar at the heels, Of senators, of praetors, common suitors, Will crowd a feeble man almost to death. If your will want not, timeand place will be fruitfully offer'd. Do not consent That Antony speak in his funeral. With this there grows,In my most ill-compos'd affection, suchA stanchless avarice, that, were I king,I should cut off the nobles for their lands;Desire his jewels, and this other's house:And my more-having would be as a sauceTo make me hunger more; that Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am caparison'd like a man, I have a doublet and hose in my disposition? One inch of delay more is a South Sea ofdiscovery. And, masters, do not forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I aman ass. O, if thou grant my need, Which only lives but by the death of faith, That need must needs infer this principle That faith would live again by death of need. Now a little fire in a wild field were like an oldlecher's hearta small spark, all the rest on's body cold. How now, Horatio! You tremble and look pale: Is not this something more than fantasy? What think you on?? Hor. Exit GAUNT KING RICHARD. Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which thoushalt find I will most kindly requite. 'Tis Gaultree Forrest, and't shall please yourGrace Bish. Say you so, say you so: I say vnto you againe, you are ashallow cowardly Hinde, and you Lye. My Lord, doe you see these Meteors? doe youbehold these Exhalations? Prin. Our foster nurse of nature is repose, The which he lacks. If a man do not erect in this age his owntomb ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monument than thebell rings and the widow weeps. Only their endsYou have respected; stopped your ears againstThe general suit of Rome; never admittedA private whisper, no, not with such friendsThat thought them sure of you. But I will finde him when he lyes asleepe,And in his eare, Ile holla Mortimer. Women's gentle brain Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention, Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect Than in their countenance. Epicurism and lust Make it more like a tavern or a brothel Than a grac'd palace. I do beseech you That I may speak with you, O, good my lord! OTHELLO. On Wednesday next, Harry thou shalt set forward:On thursday, wee our selues will march. Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind To do the office for thee of revenge, And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven, As it on earth hath been thy servant still. Ay, my mother, With all my heart I thank thee for my father! Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well When I was got, I'll send his soul to hell. Go home with it, and please your wife withal; And soon at supper-time I'll visit you, And then receive my money for the chain. But what though? Courage! As hornsare odious, they are necessary. What didst not like? And when I told thee he was of my counsel In my whole course of wooing, thou criedst, "Indeed!" And didst contract and purse thy brow together, As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain Some horrible conceit. Master Shallow, I owe you a thousand pound Shal. But, soft, I pray you, what, did Caesars wound? CASCA. The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans, Sing willow, willow, willow; Her salt tears fell from her, and soften'd the stones-" Lay be these [Sings. I say thou liest, And will maintain what thou hast said is false In thy heart-blood, through being all too base To stain the temper of my knightly sword. Westminster HallEnter, as to the Parliament, BOLINGBROKE, AUMERLE,NORTHUMBERLAND, PERCY,FITZWATER, SURREY, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, the ABBOT OFWESTMINSTER,and others; HERALD, OFFICERS, and BAGOT BOLINGBROKE. Sir Iohn, Heauen blesse you, and prosper yourAffaires, and send vs Peace. France, shall we knit our pow'rs And lay this Angiers even with the ground; Then after fight who shall be king of it? BASTARD. If the Prince be too important, tell him thereis measure in everything, and so dance out the answer. "And let me the canakin clink, clink; And let me the canakin clink. 'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs, For if you should, O, what would come of it! FOURTH CITIZEN. It is to be all made of sighs and tears; And so am I for Phebe. You shallnever take her without her answer, unless you take her without her tongue. There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord. The ship is in her trim; the merry wind Blows fair from land; they stay for nought at an But for their owner, master, and yourself. No, no! the drink, the drink!? my dear Hamlet!?The drink, the drink!? am poison?. True to tell thee, The grief hath craz'd my wits. Indeede Ile breakethy little finger Harry, if thou wilt not tel me true Hot. Now bid me run, And I will strive with things impossible, Yea, get the better of them. Lords, you that here are under our arrest, Procure your sureties for your days of answer. Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true; I have not breath'd almost since I did see it. Stop her there! Arms, arms! sword! fire! Corruption in the place! False justicer, why hast thou let her scape? Edg. I was call'd any thing: and I would haue doneany thing indeede too, and roundly too. What three things does drink especially provoke?PORTER. Stand back, Lord Salisbury, stand back, I say; By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours. Therefore, to arms! be champion of our church, Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse A mother's curse-on her revolting son. Is it honest in deedand word? Is it a true thing? TOUCHSTONE. --You, Titus Lartius,Must to Corioli back: send us to RomeThe best, with whom we may articulateFor their own good and ours. These things, come thus to light, Smother her spirits up. Thus, Brutus, did my master bid me kneel, Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down, And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say: Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest; Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving. That it might please you to give quiet pass Through your dominions for this enterprise, On such regards of safety and allowance As therein are set down. Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love; And thou, thrice-crowned Queen of Night, survey With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above, Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway. "Speak, strike, redress!" Am I entreated To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise, If the redress will follow, thou receivest Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus! Re-enter Lucius. I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we measur'dswords and parted. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool nowhere but in? own house. I hope I shall see an end of him; for my soul, yet I know notwhy, hates nothing more than he. Orchard of OLIVER'S houseEnter ORLANDO and ADAM ORLANDO. --My mother bows,As if Olympus to a molehill shouldIn supplication nod: and my young boy Hath an aspect of intercession whichGreat nature cries "Deny not. You Rogue, they were bound, euery man ofthem, or I am a Iew else, an Ebrew Iew Gad. So every bondman in his own hand bears The power to cancel his captivity. How long have you been a sectary astronomical? Edm. Experience for me many bulwarks builded Of proofs new-bleeding, which remained the foil Of this false jewel, and his amorous spoil. I think I told your lordship, a year since, how much I amin the favour of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero. O, that that earth which kept the world in awe Should patch a wall to expel the winter? flaw! But soft! but soft! aside!?ere comes the king. Did I not, fellow? I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion I would have made them skip. Come, Antony, and young Octavius, come, Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius, For Cassius is aweary of the world: Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother; Check'd like a bondman; all his faults observed, Set in a notebook, learn'd and conn'd by rote Most humbly therefore bending to your state, I crave fit disposition for my wife, Due reference of place and exhibition, With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding. The worst is not So long as we can say 'This is the worst. Why do we hold our tongues,That most may claim this argument for ours?DONALBAIN. He is no less than a stuff'd man; butfor the stuffing--well, we are all mortal. Out, damned spot! out, I say!-One; two; why, then 'tistime to do't ;--Hell is murky!--Fie, my lord, fie! a soldier,and afeard? What need we fear who knows it, when none can callour power to account?--Yet who would have thought the old man tohave had so mThe Moone shines faire,You may away by Night:Ile haste the Writer; and withall,Breake with your Wiues, of your departure hence:I am afraid my Daughter will runne madde,So much she doteth on her Mortimer. There is differency between a grub and a butterfly; yet yourbutterfly was a grub. In such a night 'To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure. I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state. And never could maintain his part but in the force ofhis will. Go tell the Duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them Now, presently. Enter [Oswald the] Steward. 72 Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play ?he Murder of Gonzago?? I Play. Good my lord, You have begot me, bred me, lov'd me; I Return those duties back as are right fit, Obey you, love you, and most honour you. Enter the DUKE, attended; AEGEON, bareheaded;with the HEADSMAN and other OFFICERSDUKE. Our enemy is banish'd, he is gone! Hoo! hoo![Shouting, and throwing up their caps. Do not for ever with thy vailed lids Seek for thy noble father in the dust: Thou know?t ?is common,?ll that lives must die, Passing through nature to eternity. Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat; though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip andscrippage. Our thunder from the south Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town. O, 'tis Marcius! Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike. Shall we to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason. Proceeded further, cut me off the HeadsOf all the Fauorites, that the absent KingIn deputation left behinde him heere,When hee was personall in the Irish Warre Blunt. Why then, the champions are prepar'd, and stay For nothing but his Majesty's approach. And if thou please, Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think I come one way of the Plantagenets. A peasant stand up thus? She takes a sword and runs at him behind. Go carry Sir Iohn Falstaffe to the Fleete,Take all his Company along with him Fal. [aside] I had rather lose the battle than that sister Should loosen him and me. Then 'tis he; the restThat are within the note of expectationAlready are i' the court. Good friend, thou hast no cause to say so yet, But thou shalt have; and creep time ne'er so slow, Yet it shall come for me to do thee good. Ho! who is within there? Enter a servant Saddle my horse. For your sake, jewel, I am glad at soul I have no other child; For thy escape would teach me tyranny, To hang clogs on them. Wars hath not wasted it, for warr'd he hathnot, But basely yielded upon compromise That which his noble ancestors achiev'd with blows. I do beseech you Though I perchance am vicious in my guess, As, I confess, it is my nature's plague To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy Shapes faults that are notthat your wisdom yet, From one that so imperfectly conceits, Would take no notice, nor  Her obsequies have been as far enlarg? As we have warranties: her death was doubtful; And, but that great command o?rsways the order, She should in ground unsanctified have lodg? Till the last trumpet; for charitable prayers, Shards, flints, and pebbles Before I knew theeHal, I knew nothing: and now I am (if a man shold speaketruly) little better then one of the wicked. Sirrah, a word with you: attend those menOur pleasure?ATTENDANT. But I say there is no hope in't:our throats are sentenced, and stay upon execution. The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase, Even as our days do grow! OTHELLO. First, the fair reverence of your Highness curbs me From giving reins and spurs to my free speech; Which else would post until it had return'd These terms of treason doubled down his throat. Can you, when you havepushed out your gates the very defender of them, and in a violentpopular ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to fronthis revenges with the easy groans of old women, the virginalpalms of your daughters, or with the palsie Man's nature cannot carry Th' affliction nor the fear. If I may bee beleeued,so: if not, let them that should reward Valour, bearethe sinne vpon their owne heads. My wife comes foremost; then the honour'd mouldWherein this trunk was fram'd, and in her handThe grandchild to her blood. My heart hath melted at a lady's tears, Being an ordinary inundation; But this effusion of such manly drops, This show'r, blown up by tempest of the soul, Startles mine eyes and makes me more amaz'd Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven Figur'd quite Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? And is notthe grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man?Shallow, shallow. And will he not come again? And will he not come again? No, no, he is dead, Go to thy death-bed, He never will come again. It pleas'd the King his master very late To strike at me, upon his misconstruction; When he, conjunct, and flattering his displeasure, Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd And put upon him such a deal of man That worthied him, got praises of  To prison, till fit time Of law and course of direct session Call thee to answer. I will assume thy part in some disguise And tell fair Hero I am Claudio, And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart And take her hearing prisoner with the force And strong encounter of my amorous tale. hitherto,By South and East, is to my part assign'd:All Westward, Wales, beyond the Seuerne shore,And all the fertile Land within that bound,To Owen Glendower: And deare Couze, to youThe remnant Northward, lying off from Trent. O murtherous slave! O villain! StabsRoderigo. Hath she made her affection known to Benedick? Leon. Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low, And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow And got a calf in that same noble feat Much like to you, for you have just his bleat. Never come such division 'tween our souls! Let it not, Brutus. What would you have me do? I am a subject, And I challenge law-attorneys are denied me; And therefore personally I lay my claim To my inheritance of free descent. Pregnancieis made a Tapster, and hath his quicke wit wasted ingiuing Recknings: all the other gifts appertinent to man(as the malice of this Age shapes them) are not woorth aGooseberry. I have us'd it, nuncle, ever since thou mad'st thydaughters thy mother; for when thou gav'st them the rod, and put'stdown thine own breeches, [Sings] Then they for sudden joy did weep, And I for sorrow sung, That such a king should play bo-peep And go t It were a delicate stratagem to shoe A troop of horse with felt. You are pictures out of doors, Bells in your parlors, wildcats in your kitchens, Saints in your injuries, devils being offended, Players in your housewifery, and housewives in your beds. Get thee gone; Buy thou a rope, and bring it home to me. --What would you have, you curs,That like nor peace nor war? The one affrights you,The other makes you proud. Come therefore, and to Thasos send his body; His funerals shall not be in our camp, Lest it discomfort us. Suffer usto famish, and their storehouses crammed with grain; make edictsfor usury, to support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome actestablished against the rich, and provide more piercing statutesdaily to chain up and restrain the poor. If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man. County Claudio, when mean you to go to church? Claud. Thy Mothers sonne: like enough, and thy Fathersshadow: so the sonne of the Female, is the shadowof the Male: it is often so indeede, but not of the Fatherssubstance Shal. Hee's no Swaggerer (Hostesse:) a tame Cheater,hee: you may stroake him as gently, as a Puppie Greyhound:hee will not swagger with a Barbarie Henne, ifher feathers turne backe in any shew of resistance. Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire! Hero. Say that thou overheard'st us; And bid her steal into the pleached bower, Where honeysuckles, ripened by the sun, Forbid the sun to enter--like favourites, Made proud by princes, that advance their pride Against that power that bred it. Wee haue heard the Chymes at mid-night, MasterShallow Shal. I have seen the day That with this little arm and this good sword I have made my way through more impediments Than twenty times your stop. What is he whose grief Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand Like wonder-wounded hearers? this is I, Hamlet the Dane. O, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles, That quicken even with blowing. But if you swear by that that not, you are not forsworn; no more wasthis knight, swearing by his honour, for he never had any; or ifhe had, he had sworn it away before ever he saw those pancackesor that mustard. O, balmy breath, that dost almost persuade Justice to break her sword! One more, one more; Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee, And love thee after. This royal throne of kings, this scept'red isle, This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars, This other Eden, demi-paradise, This fortress built by Nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war, This happy breed of men, this little world, This  For women are Shrewes, both short, and tall:'Tis merry in Hall, when Beards wagge all;And welcome merry Shrouetide. That you shall surely find him, Lead to the Sagittary the raised search, And there will I be with him. No port is free, no place That guard and most unusual vigilance Does not attend my taking. What thing, in Honor, had my Father lost,That need to be reuiu'd, and breath'd in me?The King that lou'd him, as the State stood then,Was forc'd, perforce compell'd to banish him:And then, that Henry Bullingbrooke and heeBeing mounted, and both rowsed i What woman's man, and how besidesthyself?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Villain, thou shalt find [Regan plucks his beard. Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high; Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die. And did not she herself revile me there?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I have full cause of weeping, but this heart Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws Or ere I'll weep. You wish me health in very happy season,For I am, on the sodaine, something ill Bish. The people feare me: for they doe obserueVnfather'd Heires, and loathly Births of Nature:The Seasons change their manners, as the YeereHad found some Moneths asleepe, and leap'd them ouer Clar. Therefore be double-damn'd; Swear thou art honest. Who, I, my lord? OTHELLO. I beseech youlet it be rememb'red in his punishment. Then take my king's defiance from my mouth The farthest limit of my embassy. Where is that slave, thy brother? Where is he That holds in chase mine honour up and down? BASTARD. For my part, he keepsme rustically at home, or, to speak more properly, stays me hereat home unkept; for call you that keeping for a gentleman of my birth that differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horsesare bred better; for, besides that they are The better part of Valour, is Discretion; in thewhich better part, I haue saued my life. Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villany should be so rich; for when rich villains have need of poorones, poor ones may make what price they will. That I did love the Moor to live with him, My downright violence and storm of fortunes May trumpet to the world. But, worthy lords, have you with heed perus'dWhat I have written to you?LORDS. For now, this fearful night, There is no stir or walking in the streets, And the complexion of the element In favor's like the work we have in hand, Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible. Save yourself, my lord: The ocean, overpeering of his list, Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste Than young Laertes, in a riotous head, O?rbears your offices. Take hence the rest, and give them burial here. I am desperate ofmy fortunes if they check me here. Either there is a civil strife in heaven, Or else the world too saucy with the gods Incenses them to send destruction. Call the Lady Constance; Some speedy messenger bid her repair To our solemnity. I am very ill at ease, Unfit for mine own purposes. Never alone97 Did the king sigh, but with a general groan. When Pistoll lyes, do this, and figge-me, likeThe bragging Spaniard Fal. It is a high-wrought flood; I cannot, 'twixt the heaven and the main, Descry a sail. So, like grosse termes,The Prince will, in the perfectnesse of time,Cast off his followers: and their memorieShall as a Patterne, or a Measure, liue,By which his Grace must mete the liues of others,Turning past-euills to aduantages King. I greet thy love, Not with vain thanks, but with acceptance bounteous, And will upon the instant put thee to't: Within these three days let me hear thee say That Cassio's not alive. I hauemaintain'd that Salamander of yours with fire, any timethis two and thirtie yeeres, Heauen reward me for it Bard. With him along is come the mother-queen, An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife; With her the Lady Blanch of Spain; With them a bastard of the king's deceas'd; And all th' unsettled humours of the land Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries, With ladi And your lips too; for I am well assur'd That I did so when I was first assur'd. Speak of it:?tay, and speak!?top it, Marcellus! Mar. If I had a suite to Mayster Shallow, Iwould humour his men, with the imputation of beeingneere their Mayster. Their latest refugeWas to send him; for whose old love I have,--Though I show'd sourly to him,--once more offer'dThe first conditions, which they did refuse,And cannot now accept, to grace him only, That thought he could do more, a very littleI have yie Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?BRUTUS. 'Tis nothing less: conceit is still deriv'd From some forefather grief; mine is not so, For nothing hath begot my something grief, Or something hath the nothing that I grieve; 'Tis in reversion that I do possess But what it is that is not yet known what What shall become of this? What will this do? Friar. Oh, the Lord preserue thy good Grace: Welcometo London. Sir, you have show'd to-day your valiant strain, And fortune led you well. I am disgrac'd, impeach'd, and baffl'd here; Pierc'd to the soul with slander's venom'd spear, The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood Which breath'd this poison. A castleEnter HUBERT and EXECUTIONERS HUBERT. I would his Maiesty had call'd me with him,The seruice, that I truly did his life,Hath left me open to all iniuries War. What have I done, that thou dar?t wag thy tongue In noise so rude against me? Ham. All our serviceIn every point twice done, and then done double,Were poor and single business to contendAgainst those honours deep and broad wherewithYour majesty loads our house: for those of old,And the late dignities heap'd up to them,We rest your hermI hear knockingAt the south entry:--retire we to our chamber. What earthly name to interrogatories Can task the free breath of a sacred king? Thou canst not, Cardinal, devise a name So slight, unworthy, and ridiculous, To charge me to an answer, as the Pope. Prithee, Emilia, Go know of Cassio where he supp'd tonight. Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy, Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee; And his commission to employ those soldiers, So levied as before, against the Polack: With an entreaty, herein further shown, [Gives a paper. He cannot but with measure fit the honoursWhich we devise him. Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius? Did I not meet thy friends? And did not they Put on my brows this wreath of victory, And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts? Alas, thou hast misconstrued everything! But, hold thee, take th For here lies the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act: and an act hath three branches; it is to act, to do, and to perform: argal, she drowned herself wittingly. If it be, Why seems it so particular with thee? Ham. And even but now he spake After long seeming dead, Iago hurt him, Iago set him on. O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work To match thy goodness? My life will be too short And every measure fail me. This to me In dreadful secrecy impart they did; And I with them the third night kept the watch: Where, as they had deliver?, both in time, Form of the thing, each word made true and good, The apparition comes: I knew your father; These hands are not mor Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place;Call thither all the officers o' the town,Where they shall know our mind: away! [Exeunt. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his crown, kisses it, pours poison in the king? ears, and exit. Goe (my Lord)And let our Army be discharged too:And good my Lord (so please you) let our TrainesMarch by vs, that wee may peruse the menEnter. The worser that you give me the addition Whose want even kills me. So is my horse, Octavius, and for that I do appoint him store of provender. But, good sir, What peace you'll make, advise me: for my part,I'll not to Rome, I'll back with you; and, pray youStand to me in this cause. We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give you our voicesheartily. Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove A serpent that will sting thee to the heart. Is't so? Why then say an old man can do somwhat Dau. [Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing him and he her. On toward Calais, ho! ExeuntSCENE 4. Ay, but the feet were lame, and could not bearthemselves without the verse, and therefore stood lamely in the verse. Something from Cyprus, as I may divine; It is a business of some heat. And yet, ere I go,let me go with that I came for, which is, with knowing what hath pass'd between you and Claudio. If ever I did dream of such a matter, Abhor me. Strike, as thou didst at Caesar, for I know, When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better Than ever thou lovedst Cassius. And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine. Hee is, Sir Iohn, I feare wee shall stay toolong Falst. Come, sister; I am press'd down with conceit Conceit, my comfort and my injury. Therefore I took your hands, but was indeed Sway'd from the point by looking down on Caesar. Now heaven help him! Exeunt. This murderous shaft that's shotHath not yet lighted; and our safest wayIs to avoid the aim. But in the end (to stop mine Eare indeed)Thou hast a Sigh, to blow away this Praise,Ending with Brother, Sonne, and all are dead Mor. Withhold thine indignation, mighty heaven, And tempt us not to bear above our power! I'll tell thee, Hubert, half my power this night, Passing these flats, are taken by the tide These Lincoln Washes have devoured them; Myself, well-mounted, hardly have  But if you would consider the true cause Why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts, Why birds and beasts from quality and kind, Why old men, fools, and children calculate, Why all these things change from their ordinance, Their natures, and pref Why, we wil set forth before or after them, andappoint them a place of meeting, wherin it is at our pleasureto faile; and then will they aduenture vppon the exploitthemselues, which they shall haue no sooner atchieued,but wee'l set vpon them Prin. An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that liv'd in the timeof good neighbours. Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. My causeis hearted; thine hath no less reason. Then heoffered it to him again; then he put it by again. But, indeed, if you find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up the stairs into the lobby. Sweet, leave me here awhile; My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile The tedious day with sleep. Hail, noble prince of France! The next is this: King John hath reconcil'd Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in, That so stood out against the holy Church, The great metropolis and see of Rome. " If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper "Lo, Caesar is afraid"? Pardon me, Caesar, for my dear dear love To your proceeding bids me tell you this, And reason to my love is liable. Enter JAQUES de BOYS JAQUES de BOYS. You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects, Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle KING JOHN. The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground Do stand but in a forced affection, For they have grudged us contribution. If more thou dost perceive, let me know more; Set on thy wife to observe. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do: Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed; Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse; And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses, Or paddling in your neck with his damn? fingers, Make you to ravel all this ma There shall I try, In my oration, how the people take The cruel issue of these bloody men, According to the which thou shalt discourse To young Octavius of the state of things. If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot, Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame, I'll strike thee dead. Peace, peace, peace; stay, hold, peace!MENENIUS. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she seems loth and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts his love. Out, out, brief candle!Life's but a walking shadow; a poor player,That struts and frets his hour upon the stage,And then is heard no more: it is a taleTold by an idiot, full of sound and fury,Signifying nothing. Nay, I know not: is it the king? [Draws forth Polonius. We will hold it as a dream till it appear itself;but I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be thebetter prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. O, there be players that I have seen play,?nd heard others praise, and that highly,?ot to speak it profanely, that, neither having the accent of Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so strutted and bellowed that I have thought som Yet, though thou stand'st more sure, then I could do,Thou art not firme enough, since greefes are greene:And all thy Friends, which thou must make thy FriendsHaue but their stings, and teeth, newly tak'n out,By whose fell working, I was first aduanc'd,AnThat done, dissever your united strengths And part your mingled colours once again, Turn face to face and bloody point to point; Then in a moment Fortune shall cull forth Out of one side her happy minion, To whom in favour she shall give the day, And ki I heare a Bird so sing,Whose Musicke (to my thinking) pleas'd the King. But are not some whole that we must make sick? BRUTUS. Look what thy soul holds dear, imagine it To lie that way thou goest, not whence thou com'st. Man but a rush against Othello's breast, And he retires. O that it could be prou'd,That some Night-tripping-Faiery, had exchang'dIn Cradle-clothes, our Children where they lay,And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet:Then would I haue his Harry, and he mine:But let him from my thoughts. The sweet and bitter fool Will presently appear; The one in motley here, The other found out there. Well, my good Lord: he heard of your Gracescomming to Towne. I do; and charge you in the Duke's name to obey me. The proud control of fierce and bloody war, To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld. Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet The noble Brutus, thrusting this report Into his ears. How a good Yokeof Bullocks at Stamford Fayre? Sil. Why you horson round man? what's the matter? Fal. What? drunke with choller? stay & pause awhile,Heere comes your Vnckle. And, in some taste, is Lepidus but so: He must be taught, and train'd, and bid go forth; A barren-spirited fellow, one that feeds On objects, arts, and imitations, Which, out of use and staled by other men, Begin his fashion. But who is substituted 'gainst the French,I haue no certaine notice Arch. His nature is too noble for the world:He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,Or Jove for's power to thunder. You shall close prisoner rest, Till that the nature of your fault be known To the Venetian state. He was but a fool That brought my answer back. Exeunt Desdemona andEmilia. O me, lieutenant! What villains have done this? CASSIO. Was this a face To be oppos'd against the warring winds? To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder? In the most terrible and nimble stroke Of quick cross lightning? to watchpoor perdu! With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog, Though he had bit me, sh I grant I am a woman, but withal A woman well reputed, Cato's daughter. Certaine: 'tis certaine: very sure, very sure:Death is certaine to all, all shall dye. Now could I, Casca, name to thee a man Most like this dreadful night, That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars As doth the lion in the Capitol, A man no mightier than thyself or me In personal action, yet prodigious grown And fearful, as these s A good and virtuous nature may recoilIn an imperial charge. Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother? hand, Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch?: Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin, Unhous?ed, disappointed, unanel?; No reckoning made, but sent to my account With all my imperfections on my head: O, horrib I cannot put him toa priuate souldier, that is the Leader of so many thousands. Where should Othello go? Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench! Pale as thy smock! When we shall meet at compt, This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven, And fiends will snatch at it. left aliue, and they for the Townes end, to beg duringlife. Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass, Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron Can be retentive to the strength of spirit; But life, being weary of these worldly bars, Never lacks power to dismiss itself. If ever I return to you again, I'll bring you comfort. So would not I for your own sake, for I have many ill qualities. No more, no more,Worse then the Sunne in March:This prayse doth nourish Agues: let them come. Brothers, you mixe your Sadnesse with some Feare:This is the English, not the Turkish Court:Not Amurah, an Amurah succeeds,But Harry, Harry: Yet be sad (good Brothers)For (to speake truth) it very well becomes you:Sorrow, so Royally in you appeares,That Exeunt KING RICHARD, some Lords and a Guard BOLINGBROKE. Shall it for shame, be spoken in these dayes,Or fill vp Chronicles in time to come,That men of your Nobility and Power,Did gage them both in an vniust behalfe(As Both of you, God pardon it, haue done)To put downe Richard, that sweet louely Rose,And plantBear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue showitself. England, bound in with the triumphant sea, Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege Of wat'ry Neptune, is now bound in with shame, With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds; That England, that was wont to conquer others, Hath made a shameful conq I never yet saw man, How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featur'd, But she would spell him backward. Nay, but to live In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed, Stew? in corruption, honeying and making love Over the nasty sty,?Queen. What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho! IAGO. Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicely, Gillian, Ginn!DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. You a Captaine? you slaue, for what? for tearing a pooreWhores Ruffe in a Bawdy-house? Hee a Captaine? hanghim Rogue, hee liues vpon mouldie stew'd-Pruines, anddry'de Cakes. Write down that they hope they serve God; and write Godfirst, for God defend but God should go before such villains!Masters, it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves, and it will go near to be thought so shortly. Cassio and Roderigo are borneoff. It is the right butter-women's rank to market. 'My lady's father'? My lord's knave! You whoreson dog!you slave! you cur! Osw. Do you see yonder cloud that? almost in shape of a camel? Pol. A fox when one has caught her, And such a daughter, Should sure to the slaughter, If my cap would buy a halter. Good countrymen, let me depart alone, And, for my sake, stay here with Antony. There is my hand,You shall be as a Father, to my Youth:My voice shall sound, as you do prompt mine eare,And I will stoope, and humble my Intents,To your well-practis'd, wise Directions. Alas, alas! It is not honesty in me to speak What I have seen and known. And now about the cauldron sing,Like elves and fairies in a ring,Enchanting all that you put in. He took me by the wrist, and held me hard; Then goes he to the length of all his arm; And with his other hand thus o?r his brow, He falls to such perusal of my face As he would draw it. Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if itbe well used. The merciless Macdonwald,--Worthy to be a rebel,--for to thatThe multiplying villainies of natureDo swarm upon him,--from the Western islesOf kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,Show'd like a rebel's whore. And this may help to thicken other proofs That do demonstrate thinly. He reads much, He is a great observer, and he looks Quite through the deeds of men. When they are set, enter MOWBRAY, Duke of Nor folk, in arms, defendant, and a HERALD KING RICHARD. (reads) 'If any man of quality or degree within the listsof the army will maintain upon Edmund, supposed Earl ofGloucester, that he is a manifold traitor, let him appear by the thirdsound of the trumpet. This, in the Name of Heauen, I promise here:The which, if I performe, and doe suruiue,I doe beseech your Maiestie, may salueThe long-growne Wounds of my intemperature:If not, the end of Life cancells all Bands,And I will dye a hundred thousand Deaths,EreAnd I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her; For here's a paper written in his hand, A halting sonnet of his own pure brain, Fashion'd to Beatrice. Help, uncle! Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar! Leon. " It doth abhor me now I speak the word; To do the act that might the addition earn Not the world's mass of vanity could make me. Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, with his rapier drawn, andDROMIO OF SYRACUSE. They come like Sacrifices in their trimme,And to the fire-ey'd Maid of smoakie Warre,All hot, and bleeding, will wee offer them:The mayled Mars shall on his Altar sitVp to the eares in blood. The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream Left on your right hand brings you to the place. Enter, in conquest, with Drum and Colours, Edmund; Lear andCordeliaas prisoners; Soldiers, Captain. Ay, every inch a king! When I do stare, see how the subject quakes. Come, leave your tears; a brief farewell:--he beastWith many heads butts me away. My lord, I know not what the matter is; but to myjudgment your Highness is not entertain'd with that ceremoniousaffection as you were wont. A man is master of his liberty; Time is their master, and when they see time, They'll go or come. I know not the contents; but, as I guess By the stern brow and waspish action Which she did use as she was writing of it, It bears an angry tenour. Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? He's as good at any thing, and yet a fool. I had a thing to say-but let it go: The sun is in the heaven, and the proud day, Attended with the pleasures of the world, Is all too wanton and too full of gawds To give me audience. There is none but heWhose being I do fear: and under him,My genius is rebuk'd; as, it is said,Mark Antony's was by Caesar. Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking, or spitting, or saying we are hoarse, which are the onlyprologues to a bad voice? SECOND PAGE. By Heauen (Poines) I feele me much to blame,So idly to prophane the precious time,When Tempest of Commotion, like the South,Borne with black Vapour, doth begin to melt,And drop vpon our bare vnarmed heads. But if not, then know The peril of our curses fight on thee So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off, But in despair die under the black weight. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir, Or for some frontier? Capt. keep good quarter and good care to-night; The day shall not be up so soon as I To try the fair adventure of to-morrow. So, so, (thou common Dogge) did'st thou disgorgeThy glutton-bosome of the Royall Richard,And now thou would'st eate thy dead vomit vp,And howl'st to finde it. Art thou not asham'd? But Sirrah, henceforthLet me not heare you speake of Mortimer. I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors. Then yield thee, coward,And live to be the show and gaze o' the time:We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,"Here may you see the tyrant. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes passionate action. Know'st thou not the Duke Hath banish'd me, his daughter? ROSALIND. I will deny thee nothing, Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this, To leave me but a little to myself. The yearly course that brings this day about Shall never see it but a holiday. Vengeance! plague! death! confusion! Fiery? What quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester, I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife. But were I Brutus, And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue In every wound of Caesar that should move The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny. Stand from him, giue him ayre:Hee'le straight be well Clar. Know we this face or no? Alas, my friend and my dear countryman Roderigo? Noyes, sure. What is the matter, think you? CASSIO. As thick as hailCame post with post; and every one did bearThy praises in his kingdom's great defense,And pour'd them down before him. Others there are Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty, Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves, And throwing but shows of service on their lords Do well thrive by them; and when they have lined their coats Do themselves homage. Exit Balthasar [with Musicians]. It seem'd in mee,But as an Honour snatch'd with boyst'rous hand,And I had many liuing, to vpbraideMy gaine of it, by their Assistances,Which dayly grew to Quarrell, and to Blood-shed,Wounding supposed Peace. O, Spare me not, my brother Edward's son, For that I was his father Edward's son; That blood already, like the pelican, Hast thou tapp'd out, and drunkenly carous'd. Most necessary ?is that we forget To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt: What to ourselves in passion we propose, The passion ending, doth the purpose lose. Most sweet voices!--Better it is to die, better to starve, Than crave the hire which first we do deserve. How long shall I be patient? Ah, how long Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong? Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment, Nor Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs, Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke About his marriage, nor my own O villain! thou wilt be condemn'd into everlastingredemption for this. Poor lady, she'll run mad When she shall lack it. Other, lesse fine in Charract, is more precious,Preseruing life, in Med'cine potable:But thou, most Fine, most Honour'd, most Renown'd,Hast eate the Bearer vp. If it be you that stirs these daughters' hearts Against their father, fool me not so much To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger, And let not women's weapons, water drops, Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags! I will have such revenges on What was his reason? He was not so resolv'd when last we spake together. Well then, nowHave you consider'd of my speeches? KnowThat it was he, in the times past, which held youSo under fortune; which you thought had beenOur innocent self: this I made good to youIn our last conference, pass'd in probation with youHow you were Speak, strike, redress!" "Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!" Such instigations have been often dropp'd Where I have took them up. He lets me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a brother, and as much as in him lies, mines my gentility withmy education. They did entreat me to acquaint her of it; But I persuaded them, if they lov'd Benedick, To wish him wrestle with affection And never to let Beatrice know of it. This world I do renounce, and, in your sights, Shake patiently my great affliction off. "The poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree, Sing all a green willow; Her hand on her bosom, her head on her knee, Sing willow, willow, willow. I cannot be so partial, Goneril, To the great love I bear you Gon. Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep. Thou dost lie in?, to be in? and say it is thine: ?is for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest. How now? Raine within doores, and noneabroad? How doth the King? Glo. Will the King come, that I may breathe my last In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth? YORK. Nay truely, I kisse thee with a most constantheart Fal. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland, To the ambassadors of England gives This warlike volley. You told a lie, an odious, damned lie; Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie! She false with Cassio? Did you say with Cassio? IAGO. I cannot be a man with wishing; therefore I will die a womanwith grieving. Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains, Of capital treason we arrest you here. 87 Belike this show imports the argument of the play. Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?ADRIANA. That it did, sir, i' the very throat o' me; but I requitedhim for his lie; and, I think, being too strong for him,though he took up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to casthim. But this same Cassio, though he speak ofcomfort Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly And prays the Moor be safe; for they were parted With foul and violent tempest. Alas, I look'd when some of you should say I was too strict to make mine own away; But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue Against my will to do myself this wrong. Sa, sa, sa, sa! Exit running. [Exeunt CORIOLANUS, COMINIUS, MENENIUS, Senators, andPatricians. Before Flint CastleEnter, with drum and colours, BOLINGBROKE, YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND,and forces BOLINGBROKE. Who brought that letter from the Cardinal? SALISBURY. What hath been seen, Either in snuffs and packings of the Dukes, Or the hard rein which both of them have borne Against the old kind King, or something deeper, Whereof, perchance, these are but furnishings But, true it is, from France there comes a powe Go, get you to your house; be gone, away!All will be nought else. Bethink you, father; for the difference Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome Or the light loss of England for a friend. Methinks I am a prophet new inspir'd, And thus expiring do foretell of him: His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last, For violent fires soon burn out themselves; Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short; He tires betimes that spurs too fast Why, being younger born, Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance? BASTARD. You are to knowThat prosperously I have attempted, andWith bloody passage led your wars even toThe gates of Rome. May be the letter moved him; For, as I think, they do command him home, Deputing Cassio in his government. It must be shortly known to him from England What is the issue of the business there. Why, then, your ambition makes it one; ?is too narrow for your mind. All dark and comfortless! Where's my son Edmund? Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature To quit this horrid act. That is intended in the Generals Name:I muse you make so slight a Question Bish. It was a lover and his lass, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, That o'er the green corn-field did pass In the spring time, the only pretty ring time, When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding. He could be contented: Why is he not then? in respect ofthe loue he beares our house. Do you set downe your name in the scrowle ofyouth, that are written downe old, with all the Charractersof age? Haue you not a moist eye? a dry hand? a yellowcheeke? a white beard? a decreasing leg? an incresingbelly? Is not your voice broken? your winde This cannot be, By no assay of reason; 'tis a pageant To keep us in false gaze. Enter Brabantio, Othello, Iago, Roderigo, and Officers. At some thing it grieves More than with parting from my lord the King. My sister may receive it much more worse, To have her gentleman abus'd, assaulted, For following her affairs. For my part, I had rather bear with you than bearyou; yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you; for I think you have no money in your purse. Humphrey (my Sonne of Gloucester) where isthe Prince, your Brother? Glo. I come with gracious offers from the King,If you vouchsafe me hearing, and respect Hotsp. --Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxshipTo banish him that struck more blows for RomeThan thou hast spoken words?--SICINIUS. And when you saw his chariot but appear, Have you not made an universal shout That Tiber trembled underneath her banks To hear the replication of your sounds Made in her concave shores? And do you now put on your best attire? And do you now cull out a h [Trumpetsounds] What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us? Enter the BASTARD, attended BASTARD. The King hath sent to knowThe nature of your Griefes, and whereuponYou coniure from the Brest of Ciuill Peace,Such bold Hostilitie, teaching his dutious LandAudacious Crueltie. Hath Cassius lived To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus, When grief and blood ill-temper'd vexeth him? BRUTUS. Thy Life did manifest, thou lou'dst me not,And thou wilt haue me dye assur'd of it. these, and those that were thypeach-colour'd ones:) Or to beare the Inuentorie of thyshirts, as one for superfluity, and one other, for vse. The Earle of Dowglas is discomfited,Ten thousand bold Scots, two and twenty KnightsBalk'd in their owne blood did Sir Walter seeOn Holmedons Plaines. All is uneven, And everything is left at six and seven. He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio. Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer. Give me your favor:--my dull brain was wroughtWith things forgotten. How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon, were sheearthly, no nobler,--whither do you follow your eyes so fast?VOLUMNIA. [Enter, with drum and colours, MARCIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, Officers, and soldiers. Is it possible, on such a sudden, you shouldfall into so strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son? ROSALIND. No; though thou call'st thyself a hotter nameThan any is in hell. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange! Ham. Help! help, ho! help! The Moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murther, murther! Enter Montano, Gratiano, Iago, and others. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully seeks her own salvation? 2 Clown. There lies the substance; and I thank thee, king, For thy great bounty, that not only giv'st Me cause to wail, but teachest me the way How to lament the cause. We had lik'd to have had our two noses snapp'd off withtwo old men without teeth. Put them not to't:--Pray you, go fit you to the custom; andTake to you, as your predecessors have,Your honour with your form. 1599MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHINGby William ShakespeareDramatis Personae Don Pedro, Prince of Arragon. I did dislike the cut of acertain courtier's beard; he sent me word, if I said his beard wasnot cut well, he was in the mind it was. O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly! Myself have to mine own turn'd enemy. No, thou villain, thou art fullof piety, as shall be prov'd upon thee by good witness. That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true! If then thy spirit look upon us now, Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death To see thy Antony making his peace, Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes, Most noble! In the presence of thy corse? Had I a Do you see, gentlemen? Nay, guiltiness will speak, Though tongues were out of use. Or let us stand to our authority,Or let us lose it. For full well hee knowes,Hee cannot so precisely weede this Land,As his mis-doubts present occasion:His foes are so en-rooted with his friends,That plucking to vnfixe an Enemie,Hee doth vnfasten so, and shake a friend. He was my father; and he is thrice a villain that sayssuch a father begot villains. Why in this wolvish toge should I stand here,To beg of Hob and Dick that do appear,Their needless vouches? custom calls me to't:--What custom wills, in all things should we do't,The dust on antique time would lie unswept,And mountainous error be too highOh the mad dayes that I haue spent! and to seehow many of mine olde Acquaintance are dead? Sil. Marry, before your ladyship I grant, She puts her tongue a little in her heart And chides with thinking. And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor Should hazard such a place as his own second With one of an ingraft infirmity. That's most certain, and with you; next month with us. None does offend, noneI say none! I'll able 'em. O, Sir, when he shall hear of your approach, If that young Arthur be not gone already, Even at that news he dies; and then the hearts Of all his people shall revolt from him, And kiss the lips of unacquainted change, And pick strong matter of revolt and O, two such silver currents, when they join, Do glorify the banks that bound them in; And two such shores to two such streams made one, Two such controlling bounds, shall you be, Kings, To these two princes, if you marry them. O my dear brother! This was an ill beginning of the night. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry! O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs! [A noise within. If a man will be beaten with brains, 'a shall wear nothing handsome about him. ' Alack the heavy day When such a sacred king should hide his head! NORTHUMBERLAND. [Aside] If I talk to him, with his innocent prate He will awake my mercy, which lies dead; Therefore I will be sudden and dispatch. Well, for two of them, I know them to bee astrue bred Cowards as euer turn'd backe: and for the thirdif he fight longer then he sees reason, Ile forswear Armes. Within this three mile may you see it coming;I say, a moving grove. Enter Lear, mad, [fantastically dressed with weeds]. I pray you take me vp, and beare me henceInto some other Chamber: softly 'pray. Why should I play the Roman fool, and dieOn mine own sword? whiles I see lives, the gashesDo better upon them. Exeunt all but Brutus. If I myself, there is no hour so fit As Caesar's death's hour, nor no instrument Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich With the most noble blood of all this world. I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided For your fit welcome. [The Ghost of Banquo rises, and sits in Macbeth's place. Adam |Carson |Aimee|Echo|Alan|Moore|Albert|Schweitzer|Albert|Einstein|Alec|Baldwin|Alexandra|Paul|Alice|Walker|Alicia|Silverstone|Alison |Lohman |Ally|Sheedy|Alyssa|Milano|Amber|Valletta|Amber |Benson|Amy|Ray|Anastasia|Ashley|Andre |3000|Andreas|Cahling|So that in Speech, in Gate,In Diet, in Affections of delight,In Militarie Rules, Humors of Blood,He was the Marke, and Glasse, Coppy, and Booke,That fashion'd others. For the boxe of th' eare that the Prince gaue you,he gaue it like a rude Prince, and you tooke it like a sensibleLord. The fishermen that walk upon the beach Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark, Diminish'd to her cock; her cock, a buoy Almost too small for sight. Why, it stood by her: she has light by her continually; 'tis hercommand. Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's dam, and here she comes in the habit of a light wench; and thereof comes that the wenches say 'God damn me!' That's as much to say 'God make me a light wench!' It is written they appear to men like angels of light;  --From hence to Inverness,And bind us further to you. Why, he is so made on here within as if he were son and heir toMars; set at upper end o' the table: no question asked him by anyof the senators but they stand bald before him: our generalhimself makes a mistress of him, sanctifies himself with's hand,andCould my good brother suffer you to do it? A man, a prince, by him so benefited! If that the heavens do not their visible spirits Send quickly down to tame these vile offences, It will come, Humanity must perforce prey on itself, Like monsters of the de How 'scaped killing when I cross'd you so? O insupportable and touching loss! Upon what sickness? BRUTUS. Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me. What comfort, man? How is't with aged Gaunt? GAUNT. I have hope You less know how to value her desert Than she to scant her duty. If he come to-morrow I'll give him his payment. This approves her letter, That she would soon be here. If it be so, Laertes,?As how should it be so? how otherwise??Will you be rul? by me? Laer. I am very glad to see you, signior; Welcome to Cyprus. Stars, hide your fires!Let not light see my black and deep desires:The eye wink at the hand! yet let that be,Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see. She's framed as fruitful As the free elements. And see already, how he doth beginneTo make vs strangers to his lookes of loue Hot. Should they not,Well might they fester 'gainst ingratitude,And tent themselves with death. This, as you say, suggestedAt some time when his soaring insolenceShall touch the people,--which time shall not want,If it be put upon't; and that's as easyAs to set dogs on sheep,--will be his fireTo kindle their dry stubble; and their blazeShall darkenEnter PERCY, With the BISHOP OF CARLISLE PERCY. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother!?ut is there no sequel at the heels of this mother? admiration? Ros. This is for all,?I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth Have you so slander any moment leisure As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet. Sweet Bianca, Gives her Desdemona'shandkerchief. There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him In parcels as I did, would have gone near To fall in love with him; but, for my part, I love him not, nor hate him not; and yet I have more cause to hate him than to love him; For what had he to do to ch 'Tis very true; you were in presence then, And you can witness with me this is true. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded, But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof When we would bring him on to some confession Of his true state. Father, by your leave: Will you with free and unconstrained soul Give me this maid your daughter? Leon. So that, dear lords, if I be left behind, A moth of peace, and he go to the war, The rites for which I love him are bereft me, And I a heavy interim shall support By his dear absence. Whenhee was naked, hee was, for all the world, like a forkedRadish, with a Head fantastically caru'd vpon it with aKnife. How now? What's the matter? Parts [them]. 'Will you come home?' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he. No, no, my lord! This milky gentleness and course of yours, Though I condemn it not, yet, under pardon, You are much more at task for want of wisdom Than prais'd for harmful mildness. Enter HUBERT [Aside] Hubert, what news with you? PEMBROKE. Some good man bear him carefully from hence; I'll fetch the general's surgeon. A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd With letters of your love to her at large. Butthese are all lies: men have died from time to time, and worms have eaten them, but not for love. Nay, anthou canst not smile as the wind sits, thou'lt catch coldshortly. And if it sort not well, you may conceal her, As best befits her wounded reputation, In some reclusive and religious life, Out of all eyes, tongues, minds, and injuries. Adam?Carson?Aimee?Echo?Alan?Moore?Albert?Schweitzer?Albert?Einstein?Alec?Baldwin?Alexandra?Paul?Alice?Walker?Alicia?Silverstone?Alison?Lohman?Ally?Sheedy?Alyssa?Milano?Amber?Valletta?Amber?Benson?Amy?Ray?Anastasia?Ashley?Andre?3000?Andreas?Cahling?AndrewGood Master Doctor, see him safe convey'd Home to my house. O, is that all? What will you give me now For that same handkerchief? IAGO. Wife, children, servants, allThat could be found. [Aside] O knowledge ill-inhabited, worse than Jove in a thatch'd house! TOUCHSTONE. It is a pretty youthnot very pretty; But, sure, he's proud; and yet his pride becomes him. I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose armsAre hired to bear their staves; either thou, Macbeth,Or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge,I sheathe again undeeded. As I learn'd, The night before there was no purpose in them Of this remove. You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is liketo have; and, truly, when he dies thou shalt be his heir; forwhat he hath taken away from thy father perforce, I will renderthee again in affection. Come, come, you are well understood to be a perfecter giberfor the table than a necessary bencher in the Capitol. I am glad I have found this napkin; This was her first remembrance from the Moor. Thou said'stO, it comes o'er my memory, As doth the raven o'er the infected house, Boding to allhe had my handkerchief. Therefore sirra, with a new wound in your thighcome you along me. Sir, this gentleman Steps in to Cassio and entreats his pause. How stiff is my vile sense, That I stand up, and have ingenious feeling Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract. " Now, in the names of all the gods at once, Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed! Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods! When went there by an age since the great flood But it was famed with mHe gives the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the harelip; mildews the whitewheat, and hurts the poor creature of earth. I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that hunts, but one that fills up the cry. But as the Deuill would haue it, three mis-begottenKnaues, in Kendall Greene, came at my Back, andlet driue at me; for it was so darke, Hal, that thou could'stnot see thy Hand Prin. Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am a soldier. It may be so; but yet my inward soul Persuades me it is otherwise. Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,Do call it valiant fury: but, for certain,He cannot buckle his distemper'd causeWithin the belt of rule. Now I change my mind, And partly credit things that do presage. For that he has,--As much as in him lies,--from time to timeEnvied against the people, seeking meansTo pluck away their power; as now at lastGiven hostile strokes, and that not in the presenceOf dreaded justice, but on the ministersThat do distribute it;I embrace it freely; And will this brother? wager frankly play. He that's comingMust be provided for: and you shall putThis night's great business into my despatch;Which shall to all our nights and days to comeGive solely sovereign sway and masterdom. I will, my Lord: there are two GentlemenHaue in this Robberie lost three hundred Markes Prince. O my poore Kingdome (sicke, with ciuill blowes)When that my Care could not with-hold thy Ryots,What wilt thou do, when Ryot is thy Care?O, thou wilt be a Wildernesse againe,Peopled with Wolues (thy old Inhabitants. Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress; or I should think my honesty ranker than my wit. And truly, I'll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with. Down on your knees, And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love; For I must tell you friendly in your ear: Sell when you can; you are not for all markets. Titinius is enclosed round about With horsemen, that make to him on the spur; Yet he spurs on. Exchange me for a goat When I shall turn the business of my soul To such exsufflicate and blown surmises, Matching thy inference. It may be so: if he haue robb'd these men,He shall be answerable: and so farewell She. Ile haue the Currant in this place damn'd vp,And here the smug and Siluer Trent shall runne,In a new Channell, faire and euenly:It shall not winde with such a deepe indent,To rob me of so rich a Bottome here Glend. How far is't call'd to Forres?--What are theseSo wither'd, and so wild in their attire,That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,And yet are on't?--Live you? or are you aughtThat man may question? You seem to understand me,By each at once her chappNow might I do it pat, now he is praying; And now I?l do?;?nd so he goes to heaven; And so am I reveng?. If he distaste it, let him to our sister, Whose mind and mine I know in that are one, Not to be overrul'd. Why, how now, Adam! No greater heart in thee? Live a little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little. What, If I had said I had seen him do you wrong? Or heard him sayas knaves be such abroad, Who having, by their own importunate suit, Or voluntary dotage of some mistress, Convinced or supplied them, cannot choose But they must blab OTHELLO. One Hero died defil'd; but I do live, And surely as I live, I am a maid. Exit Montano,attended. He that buckles him in my belt, ca[n]not liue in lesse Iust. Now all the plagues that in the pendulous air Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters! Kent. Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood Doth more solicit me than your exclaims To stir against the butchers of his life! But since correction lieth in those hands Which made the fault that we cannot correct, Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;  O young and noble Cato, art thou down? Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius, And mayst be honor'd, being Cato's son. Sure, these are but imaginary wiles, And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here. ExeuntEXECUTIONERS ARTHUR. I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard, Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke, Fulfill your pleasure. Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner, Or, for my diamond, the chain you promis'd, And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you. They did so; to the amazement of mine eyes,That look'd upon't. I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of Rosalind,I am that he, that unfortunate he. Honour, high honour, and renown, To Hymen, god of every town! DUKE SENIOR. I thought the King had more affected the Duke of Albanythan Cornwall. The consequence is, then, thy jealous fits Hath scar'd thy husband from the use of wits. There hath been in Rome strange insurrections: the peopleagainst the senators, patricians, and nobles. Iacke, meet me tomorrow in the Temple HallAt two a clocke in the afternoone,There shalt thou know thy Charge, and there receiueMoney and Order for their Furniture. Your master, Pindarus, In his own change, or by ill officers, Hath given me some worthy cause to wish Things done undone; but if he be at hand, I shall be satisfied. Kent banish'd thus? and France in choler parted? And the King gone to-night? subscrib'd his pow'r? Confin'd to exhibition? All this done Upon the gad? Edmund, how now? What news? Edm. Some good I mean to do, Despite of mine own nature. But who comes here? Enter SCROOP SCROOP. Yes, worthy sir,The slave's report is seconded, and more,More fearful, is deliver'd. What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost,--Which I dare vouch is more than that he hathBy many an ounce,--he dropt it for his country;And what is left, to lose it by his countryWere to us all, that do't andSo much for this, sir: now let me see the other; You do remember all the circumstance? Hor. Time travels in divers paces with divers persons. A certain number,Though thanks to all, must I select from all: the restShall bear the business in some other fight,As cause will be obey'd. Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be; Therefore no no, for I resign to thee. 'But ah, who ever shunned by precedent The destined ill she must herself assay? Or forced examples, 'gainst her own content, To put the by-past perils in her way? Counsel may stop awhile what will not stay; For when we rage, advice is often seen By blun Fear him not, Caesar; he's not dangerous; He is a noble Roman and well given. In brief, Sorrow would be a rarity most belov'd, If all could so become it. Yet can I not of such tame patience boast As to be hush'd and nought at an to say. --Get thee gone; to-morrowWe'll hear, ourselves, again. I pray you watch about Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being there tomorrow, there is a great coil to-night. Must I do so? And must I ravel out My weav'd-up follies? Gentle Northumberland, If thy offences were upon record, Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst, There shouldst thou find one heinous article, Contai In faith he was a worthy Gentleman,Exceeding well read, and profited,In strange Concealements:Valiant as a Lyon, and wondrous affable,And as Bountifull, as Mynes of India. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course for England: of them I have much to tell thee. [Whispers withBLANCH] BASTARD. Alas, poor heart! If you spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours, for I willnever love that which my friend hates. The revenges we are bound to take upon yourtraitorous father are not fit for your beholding. O, look upon me, sir, And hold your hands in benediction o'er me. Good sometimes queen, prepare thee hence for France. I bleed, sir, but notkill'd. The good gods assuagethy wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here; this, who, like a block, hath denied my access to thee. Deliuer them vp without their ransome straight,And make the Dowglas sonne your onely meaneFor powres in Scotland: which for diuers reasonsWhich I shall send you written, be assur'dWill easily be granted you, my Lord. Lie with her! 'Zounds, that's fulsome!Handkerchief confessionshandkerchief! To confess and be hanged for hislabor first, to be hanged, and then to confess. In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I look'don. Tut, there are other Troians that y dream'stnot of, the which (for sport sake) are content to doe theProfession some grace; that would (if matters should beelook'd into) for their owne Credit sake, make all Whole. An honourable conduct let him have Pembroke, look to 't. Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy Can do all this that he hath promised? ORLANDO. As is the hony, my old Lad of the Castle: and isnot a Buffe Ierkin a most sweet robe of durance? Fal. Lo, this is allnay, yet depart not so; Though this be all, do not so quickly go; I shall remember more. Go youand maintain talk with the Duke, that my charity be not of him perceived. Most grave Brabantio, In simple and pure soul I come to you. Let's teach ourselves that honorable stop, Not to outsport discretion. Now by my Sword, I will kill all his Coates,Ile murder all his Wardrobe peece by peece,Vntill I meet the King Hot. Go to, they are not men o' their words! They told me Iwas everything. He swore he would never marry; and yet now in despite of hisheart he eats his meat without grudging; and how you may beconverted I know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other womendo. If this be so, why blame you me to love you? ROSALIND. But, in good sooth, are you hethat hangs the verses on the trees wherein Rosalind is so admired? ORLANDO. Why then be sad,But entertaine no more of it (good Brothers)Then a ioynt burthen, laid vpon vs all. Was this fair paper, this most goodly book, Made to write "whore" upon? What committed? Committed? O thou public commoner! I should make very forges of my cheeks, That would to cinders burn up modesty, Did I but speak thy deeds. He uses his folly like a stalking-horse, and underthe presentation of that he shoots his wit: Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA. How can that be, when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in Denmark? Ham. Impatient of my absence, And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony Have made themselves so strongfor with her death That tidings camewith this she fell distract, And (her attendants absent) swallow'd fire. Come, we will all put forth; Body, and Goods, Mor. Anon he finds him, Striking too short at Greeks: his antique sword,70 Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls, Repugnant to command: unequal match?, Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide; But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword The unne There's no remedy;Unless, by not so doing, our good cityCleave in the midst, and perish. Out on thee, villian! Wherefore dost thou mad me?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Glamis, and Thane of Cawdor:The greatest is behind. Went he hence now? DESDEMONA. Oh, then the Earth shookeTo see the Heauens on fire,And not in feare of your Natiuitie. Enter Leonato, his brother [Antonio], and the Sexton. Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it, That he would steal away so guilty-like, Seeing you coming. I have some wounds upon me, and they smartTo hear themselves remember'd. If such a one be fit to govern, speak:I am as I have spoken. Is not that he that lies upon the ground? TITINIUS. One woman is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yetI am well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all graces bein one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace. Do so, and let no man abide this deed But we the doers. I would it were bed time Hal, and all well Prin. Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field, Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens; And, toil'd with works of war, retir'd himself To Italy; and there, at Venice, g Why do you speak so faintly? Are you not well? OTHELLO. Read thou this challenge; mark but the penning of it. Were such things here as we do speak about?Or have we eaten on the insane rootThat takes the reason prisoner?MACBETH. Lo, where he comes! Enter Othello and Attendants. Brave Titinius! Look whe'er he have not crown'd dead Cassius! BRUTUS. Who was he that said King John did fly an hour or two before The stumbling night did part our weary pow'rs? MESSENGER. [NORTHUMBERLAND advances to the Castle, with atrumpet] Let's march without the noise of threat'ning drum, That from this castle's tottered battlements Our fair appointments may be well perus'd. To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing? EMILIA. A proclaim'd prize! Most happy! That eyeless head of thine was first fram'd flesh To raise my fortunes. Enter TOUCHSTONE CELIA. By his authority I will proclaim it That he which find, him shall deserve our thanks, Bringing the murderous caitiff to the stake; He that conceals him, death. Nay, pray be patient: if you refuse your aidIn this so never-needed help, yet do notUpbraid's with our distress. --God, God, forgive us all!--Look after her;Remove from her the means of all annoyance,And still keep eyes upon her:--so, good-night:My mind she has mated, and amaz'd my sight:I think, but dare not speak. Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS, with a rope's-end Here comes my man; I think he brings the money. O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold, And put in every honest hand a whip To lash the rascals naked through the world Even from the east to the west! IAGO. Look not to the ground, Ye favourites of a king; are we not high? High be our thoughts. Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds, And gain a husband by his liberty. [Enter COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other SENATORS; JUNIUS BRUTUSand SICINIUS VELUTUS. What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me. Has he dined, canst thou tell? For I would not speak with himtill after dinner. I will go before and show him their examination. Cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord An unkind breech; but you shall make all well. What can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods? Yet Caesar shall go forth, for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar. O pity! Sir, where is the patience now That you so oft have boasted to retain? Edg. Exeunt [all but Benedick and Beatrice]. O my dear Cassio, my sweet Cassio! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio! IAGO. What areyou sewing here? A fine spot, in good faith. If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesturecries it out, when your brother marries Aliena shall you marry her. Have I not reason, beldams as you are,Saucy and overbold? How did you dareTo trade and traffic with MacbethIn riddles and affairs of death;And I, the mistress of your charms,The close contriver of all harms,Was never call'd to bear my part,Or show the glMinion, your dear lies dead, And your unblest fate hies. They could be content To visit other places, and come down With fearful bravery, thinking by this face To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage; But 'tis not so. If thou consider rightly of the matter, Caesar has had great wrong. My decayed fair A sunny look of his would soon repair. One i' the neck and two i' the thigh,--there's nine that Iknow. Do but encave yourself And mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns, That dwell in every region of his face; For I will make him tell the tale anew, Where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when He hath and is again to cope your wife. By this time, had the King permitted us, One of our souls had wand'red in the air, Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh, As now our flesh is banish'd from this land Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm; Since thou hast far to go, bear not a 'Tis seldome, when the Bee doth leaue her CombeIn the dead Carrion. Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow hell! Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught, For 'tis of aspics' tongues! IAGO. This judgement of the heavens, that makes us tremble Touches us not with pity. But do you vse me thus Ned? Must I marry your Sister? Poin. Wilt thoulove such a woman? What, to make thee an instrument, and playfalse strains upon thee! Not to be endur'd! Well, go your way toher, for I see love hath made thee tame snake, and say this toher that if she love me, I charge her to love thee; if sh In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril! Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all! O, that way madness lies; let me shun that! No more of that. 'And long upon these terms I held my city, Till thus he 'gan besiege me: "Gentle maid, Have of my suffering youth some feeling pity, And be not of my holy vows afraid. [CHARLES is thrown. Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress? ROSALIND. O masters! If I were disposed to stir Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage, I should do Brutus wrong and Cassius wrong, Who, you all know, are honorable men. If he dote on her upon this, I will never trust my expectation. You have seen Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears Were like, a better way. Troilushad his brains dash'd out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he could to die before, and he is one of the patterns of love. Now, when the Lords and Barons of the RealmePerceiu'd Northumberland did leane to him,The more and lesse came in with Cap and Knee,Met him in Boroughs, Cities, Villages,Attended him on Bridges, stood in Lanes,Layd Gifts before him, proffer'd him their OaOf so high and plenteous wit and invention IAGO. What an eye she has! Methinks it sounds a parley to provocation. Enter Brutus, Lucilius, Lucius, and Soldiers; Titinius andPindarus meet them. So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;They smack of honor both. It shall serue among wittes of no higher breedingthen thine Poin. And you shall speak In the same pulpit whereto I am going, After my speech is ended. Say, what's thy name?Thou has a grim appearance, and thy faceBears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn,Thou show'st a noble vessel: what's thy name?CORIOLANUS. All Kent hath yielded; nothing there holds out But Dover Castle. It were not for your quiet nor your good, Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom, To let you know my thoughts. ExitBASTARD Go after him; for he perhaps shall need Some messenger betwixt me and the peers; And be thou he. O, how this mother swells up toward my heart! Hysterica passio! Down, thou climbing sorrow! Thy element's below! Where is this daughter? Kent. 'Tis a spell, you see, of much power: you know the way homeagain. In pity of the challenger'syouth I would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated. These are the ushers of Marcius: before himHe carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears;Death, that dark spirit, in's nervy arm doth lie;Which, being advanc'd, declines, and then men die. What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust? I saw't not, thought it not, it harm'd not me; I slept the next night well, was free and merry; I found not Cassio's kisses on her lips. What a Slaue artthou, to hacke thy sword as thou hast done, and then sayit was in fight. Fie, how impatience loureth in your face!ADRIANA. I am as poore as Iob, my Lord; but not so Patient:your Lordship may minister the Potion of imprisonmentto me, in respect of Pouertie: but how I should bee yourPatient, to follow your prescriptions, the wise may makesome dram of a scruple, or indeede, a  I hope we have reform? that indifferently with us, sir. A figure like your father, Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe, Appears before them and with solemn march Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk?29 By their oppress? and fear-surprised eyes, Within his truncheon? length; whilst they, distill? Almost O what portents are these?Some heauie businesse hath my Lord in hand,And I must know it: else he loues me not Hot. From Fife, great king;Where the Norweyan banners flout the skyAnd fan our people cold. Prithee, nuncle, be contented! 'Tis a naughty night toswim in. For us, and for our tragedy, Here stooping to your clemency, We beg your hearing patiently. And Harrie Monmouth's Brawne (the Hulke Sir Iohn)Is prisoner to your Sonne. Faith, I saw it not, but I felt it hot in her breath. Enter a MESSENGER A fearful eye thou hast; where is that blood That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks? So foul a sky clears not without a storm. Poor and content is rich, and rich enough; But riches fineless is as poor as winter To him that ever fears he shall be poor. But, ah, I will not! Yet I love thee well; And, by my troth, I think thou lov'st me well. O sir, fly this place! Intelligence is given where you are hid. Go to, woman! Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth, From whence you have them. But for a satisfaction of my thought; No further harm. Good my Lord of Lancaster,I am not here against your Fathers Peace:But (as I told my Lord of Westmerland)The Time (mis-order'd) doth in common senceCrowd vs, and crush vs, to this monstrous Forme,To hold our safetie vp. Double, double, toil and trouble;Fire, burn; and caldron, bubble. Get you hence instantly; and tell those friendsThey have chose a consul that will from them takeTheir liberties, make them of no more voiceThan dogs, that are as often beat for barkingAs therefore kept to do so. Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame, Ifound him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren. I will chide no breather in the world but myself,against whom I know most faults. What he bids be done isfinished with his bidding. I did send to you For certain sums of gold, which you denied me, For I can raise no money by vile means. I haue led my rag ofMuffins where they are pepper'd: there's not three of my150. Then, as I said, the Duke, great Bolingbroke, Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know, With slow but stately pace kept on his course, Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee, Bolingbroke!' You would have thought the ve By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little witthat fools have was silenced, the little foolery that wise menhave makes a great show. I will not keep this form upon my head, [Tearing herhair] When there is such disorder in my wit. Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake, Else had she with her father rang'd along. I'll have't disputed on; 'Tis probable, and palpable to thinking. For his particular, I'll receive him gladly, But not one follower. Ye gods! It doth amaze me A man of such a feeble temper should So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone. How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!What is't you do?ALL. Silvius, the time was that I hated thee; And yet it is not that I bear thee love; But since that thou canst talk of love so well, Thy company, which erst was irksome to me, I will endure; and I'll employ thee too. Your If is the only peace-maker; much virtue in If. Wretched though I seem, I can produce a champion that will prove What is avouched there. O my liege, Pardon me, if you please; if not, I, pleas'd Not to be pardoned, am content withal. The time hath been, Would you have been so brief with him, he would Have been so brief with you to shorten you, For taking so the head, your whole head's length. Sweetest nut hath sourest rind, Such a nut is Rosalinde. Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue, Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips; And dull, unfeeling, barren ignorance Is made my gaoler to attend on me. Dowglas is liuing, and your Brother, yet:But for my Lord, your Sonne North. Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt; For she had eyes and chose me. Very well (my Lord) very well: rather an't pleaseyou) it is the disease of not Listning, the malady of notMarking, that I am troubled withall Iust. Enter [at one door] Leonato and [at another door, Antonio] an oldman,brother to Leonato. Brutus, I do observe you now of late; I have not from your eyes that gentleness And show of love as I was wont to have; You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand Over your friend that loves you. ?oubt thou the stars are fire;58 Doubt that the sun doth move; Doubt truth to be a liar; But never doubt I love. I' the shoulder and i' the left arm; there will be largecicatrices to show the people when he shall stand for his place. What dost thou mean? IAGO. --'Look, sir,--my wounds;--I got them in my country's service, whenSome certain of your brethren roar'd, and ranFrom the noise of our own drums. Not one amongst us, save yourself, but saysHe us'd us scornfully: he should have show'd usHis marks of merit, wounds received for's country. Then, worthy Marcius,Attend upon Cominius to these wars. Thou canst not say I did it: never shakeThy gory locks at me. Iohn Falstaffe Knight: (Euery man mustknow that, as oft as hee hath occasion to name himselfe:)Euen like those that are kinne to the King, for they neuerpricke their finger, but they say, there is som of the kingsblood spilt. The next news is, I have to London sent The heads of Salisbury, Spencer, Blunt, and Kent. But jealous souls will not be answer'd so; They are not ever jealous for the cause, But jealous for they are jealous. Thou bring'st me happinesse and Peace(Sonne Iohn:)But health (alacke) with youthfull wings is flowneFrom this bare, wither'd Trunke. O nuncle, court holy water in a dry house is better thanthis rain water out o' door. O, well begg'd!Were he the butcher of my son, he shouldBe free as is the wind. Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou wilt prove a notable argument. O Lewis, stand fast! The devil tempts thee here In likeness of a new untrimmed bride. Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all, And art confederate with a damned pack To make a loathsome abject scorn of me; But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes That would behold in me this shameful sport. For all those Wounds,Those mouthed Wounds, which valiantly he tooke,When on the gentle Seuernes siedgie banke,In single Opposition hand to hand,He did confound the best part of an houreIn changing hardiment with great Glendower:Three times they breath'd Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you; And though you know my inwardness and love Is very much unto the Prince and Claudio, Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this As secretly and justly as your soul Should with your body. Noble Earle,I bring you certaine newes from Shrewsbury Nor. I beseech you, remember,?[Hamlet moves him to put on his hat. Why should the Gentleman that rode by TrauersGiue then such instances of Losse? L. Welcome then, Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace! The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst Owes nothing to thy blasts. A murderer and a villain; A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings; A cutpurse of the empire and the rule, That from a shelf the precious diadem stole And put it in his pocket! Queen. Then pause not; for the present time's so sick That present med'cine must be minist'red Or overthrow incurable ensues. What ill request did Brutus make to thee? DARDANIUS. What, keep a week away? seven days and nights? Eight score eight hours? and lovers' absent hours, More tedious than the dial eight score times? O weary reckoning! CASSIO. O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood! Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds By what you see them act. I will attend my husband, be his nurse, Diet his sickness, for it is my office, And will have no attorney but myself; And therefore let me have him home with me. This act, so evilly borne, shall cool the hearts Of all his people and freeze up their zeal, That none so small advantage shall step forth To check his reign but they will cherish it; No natural exhalation in the sky, No scope of nature, no distemper'd  [Beats the KEEPER] KEEPER. 'Tis true, fair daughter, and this blessed day Ever in France shall be kept festival. My father hath a power; inquire of him, And learn to make a body of a limb. What devil was? That thus hath cozen? you at hoodman-blind? Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight, Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all, Or but a sickly part of one true sense Could not so mope. O Gertrude, come away! The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed We must with all our ma jesty and skill Both countenance and excuse. Now, our joy, Although the last, not least; to whose young love The vines of France and milk of Burgundy Strive to be interest; what can you say to draw A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak. Husband, I cannot pray that thou mayst win; Uncle, I needs must pray that thou mayst lose; Father, I may not wish the fortune thine; Grandam, I will not wish thy wishes thrive. How now, wit! Whither wander you? TOUCHSTONE. Where suppes he? Doth the old Bore, feede inthe old Franke? Bard. Mark how short his answer is: With Hero, Leonato'sshort daughter. Sir, pardon: a Souldier is better accommodated,then with a Wife Shal. Or shall we play the wantons with our woes And make some pretty match with shedding tears? As thus: to drop them still upon one place Till they have fretted us a pair of graves Within the earth; and, therein laid-there lies Two kinsmen digg'd their grav Alas, poor caitiff! OTHELLO. So in the world, 'tis furnish'd well with men, And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive; Yet in the number I do know but one That unassailable holds on his rank, Unshaked of motion; and that I am he, Let me a little show it, even in this; That I wa The devil himself could not pronounce a titleMore hateful to mine ear. It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place tothe devil wrath: one unperfectness shows me another, to make me frankly despise myself. Soft! comes he not here? Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES ROSALIND. Will you haue Doll Teare-sheet meet you at supper? Fal. We will ourself in person to this war; And, for our coffers, with too great a court And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light, We are enforc'd to farm our royal realm; The revenue whereof shall furnish us For our affairs in hand. And say, what store of parting tears were shed? AUMERLE. Pease and Beanes are as danke here as a Dog,and this is the next way to giue poore Iades the Bottes:This house is turned vpside downe since Robin the Ostlerdyed 1. Thou hotly lusts to use her in that kind For which thou whip'st her. I would it were otherwise: I would my Meaneswere greater, and my waste slenderer Iust. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor. He thathath a will to die by himself fears it not from another. To bear all smooth and even, This sudden sending him away must seem Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown By desperate appliance are reliev?, Or not at all. Our countrymen are gone and fled, As well assur'd Richard their King is dead. The noble sister of Publicola,The moon of Rome; chaste as the icicleThat's curded by the frost from purest snow, And hangs on Dian's temple:--dear Valeria!VOLUMNIA. My Brother generall, the Common-wealth,I make my Quarrell, in particular West. --What do you think,You, the great toe of this assembly?FIRST CITIZEN. The world's a huge thing; it is a great price For a small vice. Some get within him, take his sword away; Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house. I found him under a tree,like a dropp'd acorn. I pray thee, if it stand with honesty, Buy thou the cottage, pasture, and the flock, And thou shalt have to pay for it of us. Then Brother Iohn of Lancaster,To you this honourable bounty shall belong:Go to the Dowglas, and deliuer himVp to his pleasure, ransomlesse and free:His Valour shewne vpon our Crests to day,Hath taught vs how to cherish such high deeds,Euen in the bosom Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here. A miracle! Here's our own hands against our hearts. Nay, an you get it, you shall getit by running. Witness the world that I create thee here My lord and master. --Come on, my fellows:He that retires, I'll take him for a Volsce,And he shall feel mine edge. I do suffer love indeed,for I love thee against my will. I learned it in England, where indeed they are mostpotent in potting. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse, Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels; And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down, The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out The triumph of his pledge. If none appear to prove upon thy person Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons, There is my pledge [throws down a glove]! I'll prove it onthy heart, Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less Than I have here proclaim'd thee. I grant I am a woman, but withal A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife. Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end;or rather, to prophesy like the parrot, 'Beware the rope's-end. I am a very foolish fond old man, Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less; And, to deal plainly, I fear I am not in my perfect mind. The night has been unruly: where we lay,Our chimneys were blown down: and, as they say,Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death;And prophesying, with accents terrible,Of dire combustion and confus'd events,New hatch'd to the woeful time: theStraight satisfy yourself: If she be in her chamber or your house, Let loose on me the justice of the state For thus deluding you. Where is his Sonne,The nimble-footed Mad-Cap, Prince of Wales,And his Cumrades, that daft the World aside,And bid it passe? Vern. What a brazen-fac'd varlet art thou, to deny thou knowestme! Is it two days ago since I beat thee and tripp'd up thyheels before the King? [Draws his sword. Well said, my Noble Scot, if speaking truthIn this fine Age, were not thought flatterie,Such attribution should the Dowglas haue,As not a Souldiour of this seasons stampe,Should go so generall currant through the world. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they coming to offer you service. There is my honour's pawn; Engage it to the trial, if thou darest. A stonecutter or a painter could nothave made him so ill, though he had been but two hours at thetrade. Into her womb convey sterility; Dry up in her the organs of increase; And from her derogate body never spring A babe to honour her! If she must teem, Create her child of spleen, that it may live And be a thwart disnatur'd torment to her. My heart laments that virtue cannot live Out of the teeth of emulation. Why, so!--you have made good work!A pair of tribunes that have rack'd for Rome,To make coals cheap,--a noble memory!COMINIUS. No more but that I know the more one sickens the worseat ease he is; and that he that wants money, means, and content,is without three good friends; that the property of rain is towet, and fire to burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep; and thata great What noise? who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come. And Thane of Cawdor too; went it not so?BANQUO. Her clothes spread wide; And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;133 Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes; As one incapable of her own distress, Or like a creature native and indu? Unto that element: but long it could not be Till that her ga 'Tis true, this god did shake; His coward lips did from their color fly, And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world Did lose his luster. What private griefs they have, alas, I know not, That made them do it. Away good Ned, Falstaffe sweates todeath, and Lards the leane earth as he walkes along: wer'tnot for laughing, I should pitty him Poin. But sirra, make haste, Percy is alreadyin the field Falst. Great Jove, Othello guard, And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath, That he may bless this bay with his tall ship, Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms, Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits, And bring all Cyprus comfort. --I take my leave of you:Shall not be long but I'll be here again:Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upwardTo what they were before. Do you withdraw yourself a little while, He will recover straight. Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fightWithin Corioli gates: where he hath won,With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; theseIn honour follows Coriolanus:--Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus![Flourish. Go thou, and Eke an executioner Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays That look too lofty in our commonwealth: All must be even in our government. Be pleased then To pay that duty which you truly owe To him that owes it, namely, this young prince; And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear, Save in aspect, hath all offence seal'd up; Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent Against th' invulnerabl Mercy on me! Methinks no body should be sad but I; Yet, I remember, when I was in France, Young gentlemen would be as sad as night, Only for wantonness. Company, villanousCompany hath beene the spoyle of me Bard. Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind. Beyond imagination is the wrong That she this day hath shameless thrown on me. [The rest shall hear this burden:] Then sing him home. 'So on the tip of his subduing tongue All kind of arguments and question deep, All replication prompt, and reason strong, For his advantage still did wake and sleep. At a few drops of women's rheum, which are As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labourOf our great action: therefore shall he die,And I'll renew me in his fall. By my troth, 's but a nightgown in respect of yours- cloth-o'-gold and cuts, and lac'd with silver, set withpearls down sleeves, side-sleeves, and skirts, round underborne with a blush tinsel. Not winde? it shall, it must, you see it doth Mort. Well, you are to call at all thealehouses and bid those that are drunk get them to bed. But come, now I will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on disposition; andask me what you will, I will grant it. Let's to the Capitol;And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,But hearts for the event. Come, come, you shee-Knight-arrant, come Host. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off, And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark. Loe, heere it sits,Which Heauen shall guard:And put the worlds whole strength into one gyant Arme,It shall not force this Lineall Honor from me. But thou art fair, and at thy birth, dear boy, Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great: Of Nature's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast, And with the half-blown rose; but Fortune, O! She is corrupted, chang'd, and won from thee; Sh' adulterates hour My Lord, I found the Prince in the next Roome,Washing with kindly Teares his gentle Cheekes,With such a deepe demeanure, in great sorrow,That Tyranny, which neuer quafft but blood,Would (by beholding him) haue wash'd his KnifeWith gentle eye-drops. It was more of his Courtesie, then your deseruing Falst. The forestEnter ROSALIND, CELIA, and JAQUES JAQUES. Then was Iacke Falstaffe (now Sir Iohn)a Boy, and Page to Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolke Sil. Here's one comes in his shirt, with light andweapons. Alas, poor country,--Almost afraid to know itself! It cannotBe call'd our mother, but our grave: where nothing,But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;Where sighs, and groans, and shrieks, that rent the air,Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrowA lawn before the DUKE'S palaceEnter ROSALIND and CELIA CELIA. Enter, from opposite sides, Casca, with his sword drawn, andCicero. The sooner, sweet, for you. 'Tis a monster Begot upon itself, born on itself. That power I have, discharge; and let them go To ear the land that hath some hope to grow, For I have none. Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause Will he be satisfied. But to say, I know more harme in him then inmy selfe, were to say more then I know. Winelov'd I deeply, dice dearly; and in woman out-paramour'd the Turk. But though my cates be mean, take them in good part; Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart. Thou whorson mad Compound of Maiestie: bythis light Flesh, and corrupt Blood, thou art welcome Dol. I heard him say Brutus and Cassius Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome. I had rather heare (Lady) my Brach howle inIrish Lady. Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart. Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath another,his wife another; and I think there's one at home for you. Let me speak:I have been consul, and can show for RomeHer enemies' marks upon me. By Gis and by Saint Charity, Alack, and fie for shame! Young men will do? if they come to?; By cock, they are to blame. Hee? alas hee is poore, hee hath nothing Falst. What? Old Acquaintance? Could not all this fleshKeepe in a little life? Poore Iacke, farewell:I could haue better spar'd a better man. The devil damn thee black, thou cream-fac'd loon!Where gott'st thou that goose look?SERVANT. GloucestershireEnter BOLINGBROKE and NORTHUMBERLAND, forces BOLINGBROKE. There? rosemary, that? for remembrance; pray, love, remember: and there is pansies, that? for thoughts. I tell you he does sit in gold, his eyeRed as 'twould burn Rome: and his injury The gaoler to his pity. How if your husband start some other where?LUCIANA. Wherefore do you look Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?' Thus most invectively he pierceth through The body of the country, city, court, Yea, and of this our life; swearing that we Are mere usurpers, tyrants, and what's worse, To fright the anim Ruth|Bates|Dre||Dustin|Hoffman|Dwight|Yoakam|Earth|Crisis|Ed|Templeton|Ed|Begley Jr|Eddie|Furlong|Eddie|Jackson|Eddie |Vedder |Edwin|Moses|Elizabeth|Burkley|Elvis|Costello|Emily|Deschanel|Emmylou|Harris|Eric |Stoltz |Erykah |Badu|Farin|Urlaub|Fiona|Appl By my christendom, So I were out of prison and kept sheep, I should be as merry as the day is long; And so I would be here but that I doubt My uncle practises more harm to me; He is afraid of me, and I of him. For your part, To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony; Our arms in strength of malice, and our hearts Of brothers' temper, do receive you in With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence. I'll to the King; A thousand businesses are brief in hand, And heaven itself doth frown upon the land. Never believe it: I am more an antique Roman than a Dane. Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst? YORK. Give her the right you should have giv'n her cousin, And so dies my revenge. I am sorry then you have so lost a father That you must lose a husband. No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favour'd; forhonesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar. I rais'd him, and I pawn'dMine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,He water'd his new plants with dews of flattery,Seducing so my friends; and to this endHe bow'd his nature, never known beforeBut to be rough, unswayable, and free. Alas, poor women! make us but believe, Being compact of credit, that you love us; Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve; We in your motion turn, and you may move us. He begins atcurfew, and walks till the first cock. 'Tis they have put him on the old man's death, To have th' expense and waste of his revenues. I have received a letter this night'tis dangerous to be spokenI have lock'd the letterin my closet. Oft did she heave her napkin to her eyne, Which on it had conceited characters, Laund'ring the silken figures in the brine That seasoned woe had pelleted in tears, And often reading what contents it bears; As often shrieking undistinguished woe, In clam I prithee take thecork out of thy mouth that I may drink thy tidings. You have put him down, lady; you have put him down. It may be I will go with you; but yet I'll pause, For I am loath to break our country's laws. Ile to the Court in the Morning:Wee must all to the Warres, and thy place shall be honorable. Come,let's to Dinner; come, let's to Dinner: Oh the dayes thatwee haue seene. Alas, I sent you money to redeem you, By Dromio here, who came in haste for it. You haue heere a goodly dwelling, and a rich Shal. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so I alone became their prisoner. With him! I will keep still with my philosopher. The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes, So was I bid report here to the state By Signior Angelo. No (my good Lord) hee is in presence heere Clar. What, is he arrested? Tell me, at whose suit?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. But this our purpose is a tweluemonth old,And bootlesse 'tis to tell you we will go:Therefore we meete not now. So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd; And he shall spend mine honour with his shame, As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold. We will ourselves provide: Most holy and religious fear it is To keep those many many bodies safe That live and feed upon your ma jesty. To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts; Their papers, is more lawful. Yet speake (Morton)Tell thou thy Earle, his Diuination Lies,And I will take it, as a sweet Disgrace,And make thee rich, for doing me such wrong Mor. The question of Cordelia and her father Requires a fitter place. And, since the quarrel Will bear no color for the thing he is, Fashion it thus, that what he is, augmented, Would run to these and these extremities; And therefore think him as a serpent's egg Which hatch'd would as his kind grow mischievous, And kill h As I did stand my watch upon the hill,I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,The wood began to move. Lo now! now see the issue of your peace! KING PHILIP. How now, my sweet Bianca! how now! how now! OTHELLO. Say Morton, did'st thou come from Shrewsbury? Mor. Be not fond To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood That will be thaw'd from the true quality With that which melteth foolsI mean sweet words, Low-crooked court'sies, and base spaniel-fawning. It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will. O mighty Caesar! Dost thou lie so low? Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils, Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well. Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand! Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back. Enter Claudio and Beatrice, Leonato, Hero. Why I should fear I know not, Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear. --I could weep And I could laugh; I am light and heavy. Made you my guardians, my depositaries; But kept a reservation to be followed With such a number. A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege, And all unlook'd for from your Highness' mouth. May not an ass know when the cart draws the horse? Whoop, Jug, I love thee! Lear. Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she willdie if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her loveknown, and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bateone breath of her accustomed crossness. Your Grace mistakes; only to be brief, Left I his title out. What, boy! [Strikes him] ORLANDO. That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she broughtme up, I likewise give her most humble thanks; but that I willhave a rechate winded in my forehead, or hang my bugle in aninvisible baldrick, all women shall pardon me. I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs To apply to his bleeding face. When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say. If you have lost him, Why, I have lost him too. But his flaw'd heart (Alack, too weak the conflict to support!) 'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief, Burst smilingly. Did you call, sir? Sir, you have wrestled well, and overthrown More than your enemies. O, my good lord, yonder's foul murthers done! OTHELLO. There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be afancy that he hath to strange disguises; as to be a Dutchmanto-day, a Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries atonce, as a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniardfrom  I shall obserue him with all care, and loue King. Not yours, in good sooth?You sweare like a Comfit-makers Wife:Not you, in good sooth; and, as true as I liue;And, as God shall mend me; and, as sure as day:And giuest such Sarcenet suretie for thy Oathes,As if thou neuer walk'st further then Finsbury. At length another ship had seiz'd on us; And, knowing whom it was their hap to save, Gave healthful welcome to their ship-wreck'd guests, And would have reft the fishers of their prey, Had not their bark been very slow of sail; And therefore homeward di THE COMEDY OF ERRORSby William ShakespeareSCENE:EphesusTHE COMEDY OF ERRORSACT I. My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,Which can interpret further: only, I say,Thing's have been strangely borne. Shall I descend? And will you give me leave? ALL. I pray you, sir, go forth, And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived. [Within] Let him walk from whence he came, lest he catch cold on's feet. Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave, Found it too precious-princely for a grave. Choler!Were I as patient as the midnight sleep,By Jove, 'twould be my mind!SICINIUS. I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive notruth in your report. So did I too, and he swore he would marry her tonight. I think it is not meet Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar, Should outlive Caesar. Come, I charge youboth go with me: for the man is dead, that you and Pistollbeate among you Dol. Which done, she took the fruits of my advice; And he, repulsed,? short tale to make,?Fell into a sadness; then into a fast; Thence to a watch; thence into a weakness;59 Thence to a lightness; and, by this declension, Into the madness wherein now he rave My gracious Lord, you looke beyond him quite:The Prince but studies his Companions,Like a strange Tongue: wherein, to gaine the Language,'Tis needfull, that the most immodest wordBe look'd vpon, and learn'd: which once attayn'd,Your Highnesse knowes, co Who dares receive it other,As we shall make our griefs and clamor roarUpon his death?MACBETH. My lord, in the base court he doth attend To speak with you; may it please you to come down? KING RICHARD. If it be true that good wine needs no bush, 'tis true that a goodplay needs no epilogue. He said he had wounds, which he could show in private;And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn,'I would be consul,' says he; 'aged customBut by your voices, will not so permit me;Your voices therefore:' when we granted that,Here was, 'I thank you for yoThe evil that men do lives after them, The good is oft interred with their bones; So let it be with Caesar. Say on (my Lord of Westmerland) in peace:What doth concerne your comming? West. A very forward March-chick! How came you to this? Bora. But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter; Or rather a disease that's in my flesh, Which I must needs call mine. If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him, I spurn thee like a cur out of my way. O, let me have no subject enemies When adverse foreigners affright my towns With dreadful pomp of stout invasion! Be Mercury, set feathers to thy heels, And fly like thought from them to me again. I?l warrant you: Fear me not:?ithdraw; I hear him coming. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes, comes in again, seeming to lament with her. It hath it originall from much greefe; from studyand perturbation of the braine. Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart, Crying "Long live! Hail, Caesar!" CASSIUS. So please your Majesty That we may wake the King? He hath slept long. Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men. I begin to find an idle and fond bondage in the oppression of aged tyranny, whosways, not as it hath power, but as it is suffer'd. ' So that my errand, due unto my tongue, I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders; For, in conclusion, he did beat me there. Sir, if you'd save your life, fly to your house:The plebeians have got your fellow-tribuneAnd hale him up and down; all swearing, ifThe Roman ladies bring not comfort homeThey'll give him death by inches. An he should, it were an alms to hang him! She's an excellent sweet lady, and (out of all suspicion) she isvirtuous. LayA fault on us, your tribunes; that we labour'd,--No impediment between,--but that you must Cast your election on him. They are; and Bolingbroke Hath seiz'd the wasteful King. She and the Duke her husband! Enter, with Drum and Colours, Albany, Goneril, Soldiers. Exeunt Desdemona andEmilia. It shall do well: but yet do I believe The origin and commencement of his grief Sprung from neglected love. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it stopping a bung-hole? Hor. Tell him, so please him come unto this place, He shall be satisfied and, by my honor, Depart untouch'd. What then became of them I cannot tell; I to this fortune that you see me in. Who sets me else? By heaven, I'll throw at all! I have a thousand spirits in one breast To answer twenty thousand such as you. Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me Ne'er look'd but on my back; when they shall see The face of Caesar, they are vanished. The very spirit of Plantagenet! I am thy grandam, Richard: call me so. The courtEnter the KING, with BAGOT and GREEN, at one door;and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another KING RICHARD. Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges]. SONG Blow, blow, thou winter wind, Thou art not so unkind As man's ingratitude; Thy tooth is not so keen, Because thou art not seen, Although thy breath be rude. What I believe, I'll wail;What know, believe; and what I can redress,As I shall find the time to friend, I will. Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause. This is not Brutus, friend, but, I assure you, A prize no less in worth. We two alone will sing like birds i' th' cage. Horatio says ?is but our fantasy, And will not let belief take hold of him Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us: Therefore I have entreated him along With us to watch the minutes of this night; That, if again this apparition come17 He may appro Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells: King John, your king and England's, doth approach, Commander of this hot malicious day. Do not think, gentlemen, I am drunk: this is my ancient, this is my right hand, and this is my left. O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels. At that sad stop, my lord, Where rude misgoverned hands from windows' tops Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head. It cannot be (my Lord:)Rumor doth double, like the Voice, and Eccho,The numbers of the feared. Then if he says he loves you, It fits your wisdom so far to believe it As he in his particular act and place May give his saying deed; which is no further Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal. [aside] I should think this a gull but that thewhite-bearded fellow speaks it. Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree, The fair, the chaste, and unexpressive she. He said sir, the water it selfe was a good healthywater: but for the party that ow'd it, he might haue morediseases then he knew for Fal. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred. I giue it you, and will maintaine my word:And thereupon I drinke vnto your Grace Hast. O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking! [Coming forward] Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden, How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news? What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested the To make a second fall of curs Heere is now the Smithes note, for Shooing,And Plough-Irons Shal. Being reconciled tothe Prince your brother, I owe you all duty. Alas, I then have chid away my friend! He hath a stern look but a gentle heart. Silence, Ile giueyou a health for that anon Shal. Firm and irrevocable is my doom Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd. The Duke, my husband, and my children both, And you the calendars of their nativity, Go to a gossips' feast, and go with me; After so long grief, such nativity!DUKE. Welcome hither:I have begun to plant thee, and will laborTo make thee full of growing. Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out o' the way? DESDEMONA. To be thus is nothing;But to be safely thus:--our fears in Banquo. If that it be the work of any hand! We had a kind of light what would ensue. I have five hundred crowns, The thrifty hire I sav'd under your father, Which I did store to be my foster-nurse, When service should in my old limbs lie lame, And unregarded age in corners thrown. O Villain, thou hast stol'n both mine office and my name! The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame. Enter Publius, Brutus, Ligarius, Metellus, Casca, Trebonius, and Cinna. The orchard at Swinstead AbbeyEnter PRINCE HENRY, SALISBURY, and BIGOT PRINCE HENRY. Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon, When it hath blown his ranks into the air And, like the devil, from his very arm Puff'd his own brother. Some trumpet summon hither to the walls These men of Angiers; let us hear them speak Whose title they admit, Arthur's or John's. ; in whose name myself Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,A foe to the public weal. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading. But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the sensible Benedick's head? Claud. To-morrow then I will expect your coming; To-night I take my leave. Anchud ha' bin zwagger'd out of my life, 'twould not ha' bin zolong as 'tis by a vortnight. Did'st thou? Lord, Lord, how the world is giuento Lying? I graunt you I was downe, and out of breath,and so was he, but we rose both at an instant, and foughta long houre by Shrewsburie clocke. Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief. I prithee, let thy wife attend on her, And bring them after in the best advantage. Thou liest, thou shag-haar'd villain!FIRST MURDERER. And Princes all, beleeue me, I beseech you:My Father is gone wilde into his Graue,(For in his Tombe, lye my Affections)And with his Spirits, sadly I suruiue,To mocke the expectation of the World;To frustrate Prophesies, and to race outRotten Opinion, whoThink what you will, we seize into our hands His plate, his goods, his money, and his lands. I do protest I never lov'd myself Till now infixed I beheld myself Drawn in the flattering table of her eye. Talk with a man out at a window!-a proper saying! Bene. Had it pleased heaven To try me with affliction, had they rain'd All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head, Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips, Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes, I should have found in some place of my soul A drop of pat Ha? Againe:Said he yong Harrie Percyes Spurre was cold?(Of Hot-Spurre, cold-Spurre?) that Rebellion,Had met ill lucke? L. Phrasecall you it? by this Day, I know not the Phrase: butI will maintaine the Word with my Sword, to bee aSouldier-like Word, and a Word of exceeding goodCommand. Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out, Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon To stand 's auspicious mistress. This was not counterfeit; there is too great testimonyin your complexion that it was a passion of earnest. But if thy love were ever like to mine, As sure I think did never man love so, How many actions most ridiculous Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy? CORIN. Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays, and all. Thou ow'st the worm no silk, thebeast no hide, the sheep no wool, the cat no perfume. Thrust him downe stayres? know we not GallowayNagges? Fal. Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out, "Help, ho! They murther Caesar!" Who's within? Enter a Servant. Let? further think of this; Weigh what convenience both of time and means May fit us to our shape: if this should fail, And that our drift look through our bad performance. My lord, the first time that I ever saw him Methought he was a brother to your daughter. How much better is it to weep atjoy than to joy at weeping! Beat. The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries, and fifes,Tabors and cymbals, and the shouting Romans,Make the sun dance. 73 Yet I, A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak, Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause, And can say nothing; no, not for a king Upon whose property and most dear life A damn? defeat was made. Well, to the latter end of a Fray, and the beginningof a Feast, fits a dull fighter, and a keene Guest. I swear 'tis better to be much abused Than but to know't a little. A crowd of people, among them Artemidorus and the Soothsayer. Let your study Be to content your lord, who hath receiv'd you At fortune's alms. They love not poison that do poison need, Nor do I thee. And, noble uncle, I beseech your Grace Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye. I do attend here on the general; And think it no addition, nor my wish, To have him see me woman'd. Hail to your Grace! Kent here set at liberty. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in?? Ham. I then did vse the Person of your Father:The Image of his power, lay then in me,And in th' administration of his Law,Whiles I was busie for the Commonwealth,Your Highnesse pleased to forget my place,The Maiesty, and power of Law, and Iustice,The Image o You do love my lord: You have known him long; and be you well assured He shall in strangeness stand no farther off Than in a politic distance. Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling ofIrish wolves against the moon. They say this town is full of cozenage; As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye, Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind, Soul-killing witches that deform the body, Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks, And many such-like liberties of sin; If it That argues but the shame of your offence:A rotten Case abides no handling Hast. I would your Grace would take me with you:whom meanes your Grace? Prince. You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show Of smooth civility; yet arn I inland bred, And know some nurture. It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is not inthe contents. Why, what a poxe haue I to doe with my Hostesseof the Tauerne? Fal. Open your Eares: For which of you will stopThe vent of Hearing, when loud Rumor speakes?I, from the Orient, to the drooping West(Making the winde my Post-horse) still vnfoldThe Acts commenced on this Ball of Earth. By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done To pluck me by the beard. If he love Caesar, all that he can do Is to himself, take thought and die for Caesar. What if I do obey? How may the Duke be therewith satisfied, Whose messengers are here about my side, Upon some present business of the state To bring me to him? FIRST OFFICER. How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? And here much Orlando! CELIA. O, let us have him, for his silver hairs Will purchase us a good opinion, And buy men's voices to commend our deeds. 'Shall'!O good, but most unwise patricians! why,You grave but reckless senators, have you thusGiven Hydra leave to choose an officer,That with his peremptory 'shall,' being butThe horn and noise o' the monster, wants not spiritTo say he'll turn your currEngland, thou hast not sav'd one drop of blood In this hot trial more than we of France; Rather, lost more. I prethee Tom, beate Cuts Saddle, put a fewFlockes in the point: the poore Iade is wrung in the withers,out of all cesse. Yes, Cassius, and from henceforth, When you are overearnest with your Brutus, He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so. Ay, sir: there are a crew of wretched soulsThat stay his cure: their malady convincesThe great assay of art; but, at his touch,Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand,They presently amend. Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine, And thy best graces spend it at thy will!?But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son?Ham. Why that was well said: A good heart's worthGold. I'll beg one boon, And then be gone and trouble you no more. I would thou could'st stammer, that thou mightst pour this conceal'dman out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of narrow-mouth'd bottle either too much at once or none at all. I heard him swear,Were he to stand for consul, never would heAppear i' the market-place, nor on him putThe napless vesture of humility;Nor, showing, as the manner is, his woundsTo the people, beg their stinking breaths. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she? dead. Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day To seek thy help by beneficial hap. Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty? Bene. How hard it is for women to keep counsel! Art thou here yet? LUCIUS. O, let my sovereign turn away his face And bid his ears a little while be deaf, Till I have told this slander of his blood How God and good men hate so foul a liar. Come, come, go in with me: 'tis with my MindeAs with the Tyde, swell'd vp vnto his height,That makes a still-stand, running neyther way. And you, my noble Prince, With other princes that may best be spar'd, Shall wait upon your father's funeral. Thou that threw'st dust vpon his goodly headWhen through proud London he came sighing on,After th' admired heeles of Bullingbrooke,Cri'st now, O Earth, yeeld vs that King againe,And take thou this (O thoughts of men accurs'd)``Past, and to Come, seemes bIt is but as a Body, yet distemper'd,Which to his former strength may be restor'd,With good aduice, and little Medicine:My Lord Northumberland will soone be cool'd King. All my engagements I will construe to thee, All the charactery of my sad brows. Well said, good Womans Tailour: Well saydeCouragious Feeble: thou wilt bee as valiant as the wrathfullDoue, or most magnanimous Mouse. Enter CONSTANCE Look who comes here! a grave unto a soul; Holding th' eternal spirit, against her will, In the vile prison of afflicted breath. She robs thee of thy name; And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous When she is gone. And why, sir, must they so? The why is plain as way to parish church: He that a fool doth very wisely hit Doth very foolishly, although he smart, Not to seem senseless of the bob; if not, The wise man's folly is anatomiz'd Even by the squand'ring glance No more of that good Master Shallow: Nomore of that Shal. Then the liars and swearers are fools: for there are liarsand swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them. I twice five hundred, and their friends to piece 'em. Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come. Not in this land shall he remain uncaught; And founddispatch. O, come, go in,And take our friendly senators by the hands;Who now are here, taking their leaves of me,Who am prepar'd against your territories,Though not for Rome itself. Here, friend, is another purse; in it a jewel Well worth a poor man's taking. Exit SERVINGMAN Gentlemen, will you go muster men? If I know how or which way to order these affairs Thus disorderly thrust into my hands, Never believe me. I am not valiant neither, But every puny whipster gets my sword. Away! the foul fiend follows me! Through the sharphawthorn blows the cold wind. And he's as like to do't as any man I can imagine. O, stand up bless'd!Whilst, with no softer cushion than the flint,I kneel before thee; and unproperlyShow duty, as mistaken all this whileBetween the child and parent. O, now you look like Hubert! All this while You were disguis'd. "I call'd my love false love; but what said he then? Sing willow, willow, willow. Yet stay awhile, Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse Into the marketplace. ' IfI do not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not loveher, I am a Jew. An if I do not, may my hands rot of And never brandish more revengeful steel Over the glittering helmet of my foe! ANOTHER LORD. There's hell, there's darkness, there's the sulphurous pit; burning, scalding, stench, consumption. I have seen better faces in my time Than stands on any shoulder that I see Before me at this instant. Enter BOLINGBROKE, the DUKE OF YORK, With other LORDSand attendants BOLINGBROKE. Farewell Kinsman: Ile talke to youWhen you are better temper'd to attend Nor. Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a matter. Only make trial what your love can doFor Rome, towards Marcius. Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife. As much good stay with thee as go with me! DUCHESS. What in theworld he is That names me traitor, villain-like he lies. The spirit of my father growsstrong in me, and I will no longer endure it; therefore allow me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or give me the poor allottery my father left me by testament; with that I will gobuy my fortunes. O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words, That thou returnest no greeting to thy friends? BOLINGBROKE. 'Tis more then time: And (my most Noble Lord)I heare for certaine, and do speake the truth:The gentle Arch-bishop of Yorke is vpWith well appointed Powres: he is a manWho with a double Surety bindes his Followers. I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold Can in this desert place buy entertainment, Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed. From seventeen years till now almost four-score Here lived I, but now live here no more. I take my leave before I have begun, For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done. But which of you was by(You Cousin Neuil, as I may remember)When Richard, with his Eye, brim-full of Teares,(Then check'd, and rated by Northumberland)Did speake these words (now prou'd a Prophecie:)Northumberland, thou Ladder, by the whichMy Cousin Bul Who knocks so lowd at doore? Looke to thedoore there, Francis?Enter Peto. How now, brother Edmund? What serious contemplation areyou in? Edm. Good King, that must approve the common saw, Thou out of heaven's benediction com'st To the warm sun! Approach, thou beacon to this under globe, That by thy comfortable beams I may Peruse this letter. It is the base (though bitter) disposition ofBeatrice that puts the world into her person and so gives me out. Behold yond simp'ring dame, Whose face between her forks presageth snow, That minces virtue, and does shake the head To hear of pleasure's name. Shut your mouth, dame, Or with this paper shall I stop it. And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim What store her heart is made on. When euer yet was your Appeale deny'd?Wherein haue you beene galled by the King?What Peere hath beene suborn'd, to grate on you,That you should seale this lawlesse bloody BookeOf forg'd Rebellion, with a Seale diuine? Bish. To thee and thine hereditary ever Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom, No less in space, validity, and pleasure Than that conferr'd on Goneril. Consider further,That when he speaks not like a citizen, You find him like a soldier: do not takeHis rougher accents for malicious sounds,But, as I say, such as become a soldier,Rather than envy you. King John, this is the very sum of all: England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine, In right of Arthur, do I claim of thee; Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms? KING JOHN. O, I have heard him speak of that same brother; And he did render him the most unnatural That liv'd amongst men. Take leave, and part; for you must part forthwith. 'For further I could say this man's untrue, And knew the patterns of his foul beguiling; Heard where his plants in others' orchards grew; Saw how deceits were gilded in his smiling; Knew vows were ever brokers to defiling; Thought characters and words m Sir Iohn, I prythee leaue the Prince & me alone,I will lay him downe such reasons for this aduenture, thathe shall go Fal. He that has a house to put 's head in has a goodhead-piece. Blasts and fogs upon thee! Th' untented woundings of a father's curse Pierce every sense about thee!Old fond eyes, Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out, And cast you, with the waters that you lose, To temper clay. What are you then determined to do? BRUTUS. Come, I will goe drinke with you, but I cannottarry dinner. Thou say'st well, and it holds well too: for thefortune of vs that are the Moones men, doeth ebbe andflow like the Sea, beeing gouerned as the Sea is, by theMoone: as for proofe. Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM OLIVER. You are welcome: but my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived. Let's then determine With th' ancient of war on our proceeding. Will you go see the order of the course? BRUTUS. [Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet. O Villaine, thou stolest a Cup of Sacke eighteeneyeeres agoe, and wert taken with the manner, andeuer since thou hast blusht extempore: thou hadst fireand sword on thy side, and yet thou ranst away; whatinstinct hadst thou for it? Bard. Fetch hither Richard, that in common view He may surrender; so we shall proceed Without suspicion. Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is notlawful. He would be crown'd: How that might change his nature, there's the question. This disease is beyond my practice: yet I have known thosewhich have walked in their sleep who have died holily intheir beds. This that youheard, was but a colour Shall. Never any did so, though very many have been besidetheir wit. O, no; he goes into Mauritania, and takes away with himthe fair Desdemona, unless his abode be lingered here by some accident; wherein none can be so determinate as the removingof Cassio. I do allow this Wen to bee as familiar withme, as my dogge: and he holds his place, for looke youhe writes Poin. Please it your Grace, on to the state affairs; I had rather to adopt a child than get it. Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes; Our enemies have beat us to the pit; Low alarums. If, sir, perchance She have restrain'd the riots of your followers, 'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end, As clears her from all blame. Cassio, I love thee, But never more be officer of mine. How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot? CASSIO. Masters, let him go; He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him. My Lord prepare, the King comes on apace Hot. What cannot be preserved when Fortune takes, Patience her injury a mockery makes. If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body, And give the letters which thou find'st about me To Edmund Earl of Gloucester. Eight yards of vneuen ground, is threescore & ten milesafoot with me: and the stony-hearted Villaines knowe itwell enough. And let those that play your clowns speak no more than is set down for them: for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh too, though in the meantime some necessary83 question of the play be then I haueseru'd your Worshippe truely sir, these eight yeares: andif I cannot once or twice in a Quarter beare out a knaue,against an honest man, I haue but a very litle credite withyour Worshippe. Ay, or any show that you?l show him: be not you ashamed to show, he?l not shame to tell you what it means. I prethee good Prince Hal, help me to my horse,good Kings sonne Prin. Thou art rash as fire, to say That she was false. I didthat I did not this seuen yeeres before, I blusht to hearehis monstrous deuices Prin. Rightly to be great Is not to stir without great argument, But greatly to find quarrel in a straw When honour? at the stake. The King Yet speaks, and peradventure may recover. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start not so wildly from my affair. Then give me leave that I may turn the key, That no man enter till my tale be done. Do thy worst; This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven Than thou wast worthy her. A friend should bear his friend's infirmities, But Brutus makes mine greater than they are. This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spar'd At suit of his grey beard Kent. Why, thou Mars! I tell theeWe have a power on foot; and I had purposeOnce more to hew thy target from thy brawn,Or lose mine arm for't: thou hast beat me outTwelve several times, and I have nightly sinceDreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me;We have O, if thou be'st the same Aegeon, speak, And speak unto the same Aemilia!AEGEON. My first son,Whither wilt thou go? Take good CominiusWith thee awhile: determine on some courseMore than a wild exposture to each chanceThat starts i' the way before thee. What you have said I will consider; what you have to say I will with patience hear, and find a time Both meet to hear and answer such high things. On Bacons,on, what ye knaues? Yong men must liue, you areGrand Iurers, are ye? Wee'l iure ye ifaith. I am affraide ofthis Gun-powder Percy though he be dead. This is an accident of hourly proof, Which I mistrusted not. Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick, themarried man'? Bene. No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she should sodote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviours seem'd ever to abhor. I say to you, I desire deliu'rance from these Officersbeing vpon hasty employment in the Kings Affaires Iust. 'Faith, Sir Iohn, 'tis more then time that I werethere, and you too: but my Powers are there alreadie. Three parts of him Is ours already, and the man entire Upon the next encounter yields him ours. Fie, fie, fie! pah,pah! Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination. You have of late stood out against your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace,where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself. Why stay we to be baitedWith one that wants her wits?VOLUMNIA. O, it offends me to the soul, to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who, for the most part, are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb shows and noise: I would have suc I tore it from the traitor's bosom, King; Fear, and not love, begets his penitence. I think he'll be to RomeAs is the osprey to the fish, who takes itBy sovereignty of nature. Yet look up, behold, That you in pity may dissolve to dew, And wash him fresh again with true-love tears. If you shall cleave to my consent,--when 'tis,It shall make honor for you. But, O vain boast! Who can control his fate? 'Tis not so now. A Park or Lawn, with a gate leading to thePalace. This supernatural solicitingCannot be ill; cannot be good:--if ill,Why hath it given me earnest of success,Commencing in a truth? I am Thane of Cawdor:If good, why do I yield to that suggestionWhose horrid image doth unfix my hair,And make my seated he 
It may chance cost some of vs our liues: he wil stab Hostesse. A whorson cold sir, a cough sir, which I caughtwith Ringing in the Kings affayres, vpon his Coronationday, sir Fal. This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't? GENTLEMEN. Well, I'll hear it, sir; yet you must not think to fob off ourdisgrace with a tale: but, an't please you, deliver. What, stand'st thou still, and hear'st such a calling?Looke to the Guests within: My Lord, olde SirIohn with halfe a dozen more, are at the doore: shall I letthem in? Prin. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of liquor. Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester. And now I will vnclaspe a Secret booke,And to your quicke conceyuing Discontents,Ile reade you Matter, deepe and dangerous,As full of perill and aduenturous Spirit,As to o're-walke a Current, roaring loudOn the vnstedfast footing of a Speare Hot. I beseech you sir,To countenance William Visor of Woncot, against ClementPerkes of the hill Shal. That it should come to this! But two months dead!?ay, not so much, not two: So excellent a king; that was, to this, Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother, That he might not beteem the winds of heaven Visit her face too roughly. Ile so offend, to make offence a skill,Redeeming time, when men thinke least I will. O, he is bold, and blushes not at death! Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone! HUBERT. Be like they had some notice of the people, How I had moved them. I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense, And he grows angry. I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine; The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long. He call'd me euen now (my Lord) through a redLattice, and I could discerne no part of his face from thewindow: at last I spy'd his eyes, and me thought he hadmade two holes in the Ale-wiues new Petticoat, & peepedthrough Prin. Ay, sooth; so humbled That he hath left part of his grief with me To suffer with him. [To Edgar] Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer. I shifted him away, And laid good 'scuse upon your ecstasy; Bade him anon return and here speak with me The which he promised. Ye fat paunch, and yee call mee Coward, Ilestab thee Fal. Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' th' town; Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers What we are come about, and by no means Will yield to see his daughter. A pickaxe and a spade, a spade, For and a shrouding sheet; O, a pit of clay for to be made For such a guest is meet. No more, I say! for that I have not wash'dMy nose that bled, or foil'd some debile wretch,--Which, without note, here's many else have done,--You shout me forth in acclamations hyperbolical;As if I loved my little should be dietedIn praises sauc'd with lYou lords and noble friends, know our intent. He hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age,doing in the figure of a lamb the feats of a lion. Yet to good wine they do use good bushes;and good plays prove the better by the help of good epilogues. Exceeding well: his CaresAre now, all ended Ch. If I become not a Cartas well as another man, a plague on my bringing vp: Ihope I shall as soone be strangled with a Halter, as another Prince. I care not, a man can die but once: wee owe adeath. How dangerous is it that this man goes loose! Yet must not we put the strong law on him: He? lov? of the distracted multitude, Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes; And where ?is so, the offender? scourge is weigh?, But never the offence. If I quench thee, thou flaming minister, I can again thy former light restore, Should I repent me; but once put out thy light, Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature, I know not where is that Promethean heat That can thy light relume. They say he wears a key in his ear, anda lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, thewhich he hath us'd so long and never paid that now men growhard-hearted and will lend nothing for God's sake. Yea, 'Light o' love' with your heels! then, if yourhusband have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barnes. Another lean unwash'd artificer Cuts off his tale, and talks of Arthur's death. This hand of mine Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand, Not painted with the crimson spots of blood. Another part of the battlefieldEnter SALISBURY, PEMBROKE, and BIGOT SALISBURY. By this our Booke is drawne: wee'le but seale,And then to Horse immediately Mort. If I like thee no worseafter dinner, I will not part from thee yet. At?loses in the consequence?ay, marry! He closes with you thus:?I know the gentleman; I saw him yesterday, or t?ther day, Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say, There was he gaming; there o?rtook in? rouse; There falling out at tennis? o This is the very false gallop of verses; why do you infect yourself with them? ROSALIND. Ha, ha, ha, you can do it sir: you can doe it: Icommend you well. [Alarums, and exeunt Romeans and Volsces fighting. For you, Edmund, Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant So much commend itself, you shall be ours. O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son! My life, my joy, my food, my ail the world! My widow-comfort, and my sorrows' cure! Exit KING PHILIP. Pistol, I will double charge theeWith Dignities Bard. And come yourselves and bring Messala with you Immediately to us. Fetch forth the stocks! You stubborn ancient knave, you reverent braggart, We'll teach you Kent. Round about the caldron go;In the poison'd entrails throw. First he was A noble servant to them; but he could notCarry his honours even: whether 'twas pride,Which out of daily fortune ever taintsThe happy man; whether defect of judgment,To fail in the disposing of those chancesWhich he was lord of; or whether n Not only, sir, this your all-licens'd fool, But other of your insolent retinue Do hourly carp and quarrel, breaking forth In rank and not-to-be-endured riots. Very good orators, when they are out, they will spit; and for lovers lackingGod warn us!matter, the cleanliest shift isto kiss. What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new Duke? CHARLES. Ay, sir, but ?hile the grass grows?the proverb is something musty. His soldiers fell to spoil, Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed. 'Tis pride that pulls the country down; Then take thine auld cloak about thee. Glasses, glasses, is the onely drinking: and forthy walles a pretty slight Drollery, or the Storie of theProdigall, or the Germane hunting in Waterworke, isworth a thousand of these Bed-hangings, and these FlybittenTapistries. Sir Iohn stands to his word, the diuel shall hauehis bargaine, for he was neuer yet a Breaker of Prouerbs:He will giue the diuell his due Poin. The best and soundest of his time hath been but rash; then must we look to receive from his age, not alone the imperfections of long-ingraffed condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness that infirm and choleric years bringwith them. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit? diseased: but, sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,?Ros. My brother shall know of it: and so I thank you for your good counsel. Therefore to horse;And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,But shift away: there's warrant in that theftWhich steals itself, when there's no mercy left. And then he offeredit the third time; he put it the third time by; and still as he refused it, the rabblement hooted and clapped their choppedhands and threw up their sweaty nightcaps and uttered such a dealof stinking breath because Caesar refused the  Yea and elsewhere, so farre as my Coine wouldstretch, and where it would not, I haue vs'd my credit Fal. That, trusted home,Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,Besides the Thane of Cawdor. Though in this city heHath widow'd and unchilded many a one,Which to this hour bewail the injury,Yet he shall have a noble memory. France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue, A chafed lion by the mortal paw, A fasting tiger safer by the tooth, Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold. Sometimes her levelled eyes their carriage ride, As they did batt'ry to the spheres intend; Sometime diverted their poor balls are tied To th' orbed earth; sometimes they do extend Their view right on; anon their gazes lend To every place at once, and n You lie you rogue, 'tis going to the Kings Tauern Gad. I must have liberty Withal, as large a charter as the wind, To blow on whom I please, for so fools have; And they that are most galled with my folly, They most must laugh. [Enter King, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Attendants. What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food, Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce A thievish living on the common road? This I must do, or know not what to do; Yet this I will not do, do how I can. I should e'en die with pity, To see another thus. Come, come, no longer will I be a fool, To put the finger in the eye and weep, Whilst man and master laughs my woes to scorn. I am not mad; too well, too well I feel The different plague of each calamity. Those, for their parents were exceeding poor, I bought, and brought up to attend my sons. He replied, 'Thou unpossessing bastard, dost thou think, If I would stand against thee, would the reposal Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee Make thy words faith'd? No. It is the firsttime that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport for ladies. Mine innocence and Saint George to thrive! MOWBRAY. If with myself I hold intelligence, Or have acquaintance with mine own desires; If that I do not dream, or be not frantic As I do trust I am notthen, dear uncle, Never so much as in a thought unborn Did I offend your Highness. Good old man, Thou art right welcome as thy master is. [To ELINOR] So shall it be; your Grace shall stay behind, So strongly guarded. For all beneath the moon Would I not leap upright. Against him first: he's a very dog to the commonalty. You told me you salutenot at the court, but you kiss your hands; that courtesy would be uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds. It did always seem so to us; but now, in the division ofthe kingdom, it appears not which of the Dukes he values most,for equalities are so weigh'd that curiosity in neither can make choice of either's moiety. O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives. Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants, Your differences shall all rest under gage Till we assign you to your days of trial Enter YORK, attended YORK. But come in;Let me commend thee first to those that shallSay yea to thy desires. Wilt thou make as many holes in an enemies Battaile,as thou hast done in a Womans petticote? Feeble. As thou?t a man, Give me the cup; let go; by heaven, I?l have?. Heere is a deere and true industrious friend,Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his Horse,Strain'd with the variation of each soyle,Betwixt that Holmedon, and this Seat of ours:And he hath brought vs smooth and welcome newes. Bear with me; My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar, And I must pause till it come back to me. Do you perceive in all this noble company Where most you owe obedience? DESDEMONA. Come apace, good Audrey; I will fetch up yourgoats, Audrey. Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price. Gentle kinsman, go And thrust thyself into their companies. Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,His mansion, and his titles, in a placeFrom whence himself does fly? He loves us not:He wants the natural touch; for the poor wren,The most diminutive of birds, will fight,Her young ones in her nest, against With as little a web as this will I ensnare as great a fly as Cassio. Of Prisoners, Hotspurre tookeMordake Earle of Fife, and eldest sonneTo beaten Dowglas, and the Earle of Atholl,Of Murry, Angus, and Menteith. Nay, more,Some parcels of their power are forth already, And only hitherward. And this same halfe-fac'd fellow,Shadow, giue me this man: hee presents no marke to theEnemie, the foe-man may with as great ayme leuell atthe edge of a Pen-knife: and for a Retrait, how swiftlywill this Feeble, the Womans Taylor, runne off. Enter two PAGES FIRST PAGE. If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time, Thou shouldst have said, 'Good porter, turn the key. Is it even so? Begin you to grow upon me? I will physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand crowns neither. Now, for want of these required conveniences, her delicate tenderness will finditself abused, begin to heave the gorge, disrelish and abhor theMoor; very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to somesecond choice. Come, away, away! We'll burn his body in the holy place And with the brands fire the traitors' houses. How can she thus, then, call us by ournames, Unless it be by inspiration?ADRIANA. Masters o' the people,Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter,--That's thousand to one good one,--when you now seeHe had rather venture all his limbs for honour Than one on's ears to hear it?--Proceed, Cominius. No, nor I neither: Ile be at your elbow Fang. 'Tis no matter;If he could burn us all into one coalWe have deserv'd it. Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE, and AUDREY MARTEXT. You have beguil'd me with a counterfeit Resembling majesty, which, being touch'd and tried, Proves valueless; you are forsworn, forsworn; You came in arms to spill mine enemies' blood, But now in arms you strengthen it with yours. O, the more angel she, And you the blacker devil! OTHELLO. Thou prat'st and prat'st; serve with thy trencher, hence! [Beats him away. So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns. What is thy name? and wherefore com'st thou hither Before King Richard in his royal lists? Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel? Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven! BOLINGBROKE. Nay, had I power, I shouldPour the sweet milk of concord into hell,Uproar the universal peace, confoundAll unity on earth. Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs, And when you do them BRUTUS. Octavius, lead your battle softly on, Upon the left hand of the even field. I'll read enough, When I do see the very book indeed Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself. Y'are sad, Signior Balthazar; pray God ourcheer May answer my good will and your good welcome here. Enter one bearing a coronet; then Lear; then the Dukes of Albany and Cornwall; next, Goneril, Regan, Cordelia, with Followers. 'Pray you pacifie your selfe (Sir Iohn) there comesno Swaggerers heere Falst. Why, this is not a boon; 'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves, Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm, Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit To your own person. Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in himto be truly touch'd with love. Noble Aufidius,Take your commission; hie you to your bands;Let us alone to guard Corioli:If they set down before's, for the removeBring up your army; but I think you'll findThey've not prepared for us. Glad am I that your Highness is so arm'd To bear the tidings of calamity. )Come, if it were not for thy humors, there is not a betterWench in England. But I am arm'd, And dangers are to me indifferent. O Fate, take not away thy heavy hand! Death is the fairest cover for her shame That may be wish'd for. My story being done, She gave me for my pains a world of sighs; She swore, in faith, 'twas strange, 'twas passing strange; 'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful. Sir Iohn, Sir Iohn, doe not your selfe wrong, theyare your likelyest men, and I would haue you seru'd withthe best Falst. How much unlook'd for is this expedition! AUSTRIA. What the goodyear, my lord! Why are you thus out ofmeasure sad? John. Leander, he would have liv'd many a fair year, though Herohad turn'd nun, if it had not been for a hot midsummer night;for, good youth, he went but forth to wash him in the Hellespont,and, being taken with the cramp, was drown'd; and the foolish chronic Know of me thenfor now I speak to some purposethat I know youare a gentleman of good conceit. I am sorry that with better heed and judgment I had not quoted him: I fear? he did but trifle, And meant to wreck thee; but beshrew my jealousy! It seems it as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger so Good Signior Leonato, are you come to meet your trouble?The fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it. Exeunt all but Iago andCassio. Are these things spoken, or do I but dream? John. If we make thought of this, We must not think the Turk is so unskillful To leave that latest which concerns him first, Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain, To wake and wage a danger profitless. Our good old friend, Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow Your needful counsel to our business, Which craves the instant use. What shouts are these? The other side o' the city is risen: whystay we prating here? to the Capitol!ALL. I saw young Harry with his Beuer on,His Cushes on his thighes, gallantly arm'd,Rise from the ground like feathered Mercury,And vaulted with such ease into his Seat,As if an Angell dropt downe from the Clouds,To turne and winde a fierie Pegasus,And witch Beshrew me much, Emilia, I was, unhandsome warrior as I am, Arraigning his unkindness with my soul; But now I find I had suborn'd the witness, And he's indicted falsely. Indeed, we heard how near his death he was, Before the child himself felt he was sick. Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and great showing: indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him t It was not brought me, my lord: there's the cunning of it. He gaue you all the Duties of a Man,Trimm'd vp your praises with a Princely tongue,Spoke your deseruings like a Chronicle,Making you euer better then his praise,By still dispraising praise, valew'd with you:And which became him like a Prince indeed,He maBy day and night, he wrongs me! Every hour He flashes into one gross crime or other That sets us all at odds. And for mine own part, I durst not laugh for fear of opening mylips and receiving the bad air. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king: Tell him that, by his license, Fortinbras Craves the conveyance of a promis? march Over his kingdom. But to the Letter: Sir Iohn Falstaffe,Knight, to the Sonne of the King, neerest his Father, HarriePrince of Wales, greeting Poin. Thy Dol, and Helen of thy noble thoghtsis in base Durance, and contagious prison: Hall'd thitherby most Mechanicall and durty hand. We will be satisfied! Let us be satisfied! BRUTUS. You show too much of thatFor which the people stir: if you will passTo where you are bound, you must inquire your way,Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit;Or never be so noble as a consul,Nor yoke with him for tribune. Why, there was a crown offered him, and being offeredhim, he put it by with the back of his hand, thus, and then the people fell ashouting. Caitiff, in pieces shake That under covert and convenient seeming Hast practis'd on man's life. Natures of such deep trust we shall much need; You we first seize on. I think it be no other but e?n so: Well may it sort, that this portentous figure20 Comes armed through our watch; so like the king That was and is the question of these wars. Say you chose himMore after our commandment than as guidedBy your own true affections; and that your minds,Pre-occupied with what you rather must doThan what you should, made you against the grainTo voice him consul. I shall obey you:?And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish That your good beauties be the happy cause Of Hamlet? wildness: so shall I hope your virtues Will bring him to his wonted way again, To both your honours. I will deuise matter enough out of this Shallow, tokeepe Prince Harry in continuall Laughter, the wearingout of sixe Fashions (which is foure Tearmes) or two Actions,and he shall laugh with Interuallums. Will I liue? Go with her, with her: hooke-on,hooke-on Host. O, when the last account 'twixt heaven and earth Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal Witness against us to damnation! How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds Make deeds ill done! Hadst not thou been by, A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd, For competence of life, I will allow you,That lacke of meanes enforce you not to euill:And as we heare you do reforme your selues,We will according to your strength, and qualities,Giue you aduancement. I know, Iago, Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, Making it light to Cassio. <ExeuntSCENE 2Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUSEnter LUCIANA with ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSELUCIANA. Damn them then, If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster More than their own! What then? how then? What shall I say? Where's satisfaction? It is impossible you should see this Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys, As salt as wolves in pride, an Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a gentlemanor a yeoman. Hee is not his Crafts-master, hee doth not doeit right. Hah, Cousin Silence, that thou hadst seene that,that this Knight and I haue seene: hah, Sir Iohn, said Iwell? Falst. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern! Moreover that we much did long to see you,54 The need we have to use you did provoke Our hasty sending. Shall I entreat a word? They whisper. Why, first for flouting me; and thenwherefore, For urging it the second time to me. Say I love Brutus and I honor him; Say I fear'd Caesar, honor'd him, and loved him. If it shall please you tosuspend your indignation against my brother till you can derive fromhim better testimony of his intent, you should run a certaincourse; where, if you violently proceed against him, mistaking his purpose, it would make a great ga If I know more of any man alive Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant, Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father, Prove you that any man with me convers'd At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight Maintain'd the change of words with any creature, Refus You have a nimble wit; I think 'twas made of Atalanta's heels. Enter KING JOHN, ELINOR, ARTHUR,the BASTARD, HUBERT, and LORDS KING JOHN. In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two have notin abundance?BRUTUS. I talke not of his Maiesty: you would not comewhen I sent for you? Fal. To thine and Albany's issue Be this perpetual. Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound, And, after some small space, being strong at heart, He sent me hither, stranger as I am, To tell this story, that you might excuse His broken promise, and to give this napkin, Dy'd in his blood, unto the sheph Vpon thy sightMy worldly businesse makes a period. O noble fool! A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear. What, you will not?--Pr'ythee, tell my master what a strangeguest he has here. Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word,That Dowglas and the English Rebels metThe eleuenth of this moneth, at Shrewsbury:A mightie and a fearefull Head they are,(If Promises be kept on euery hand)As euer offered foule play in a State King. If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,Thou't not believe thy deeds: but I'll report itWhere senators shall mingle tears with smiles;Where great patricians shall attend, and shrug,I' the end admire; where ladies shall be frightedAnd, gladly quak'Your officer, Iago, can inform you While I spare speech, which something now offends me Of all that I do know. No; rather I will go to Benedick And counsel him to fight against his passion. I remember The first time ever Caesar put it on; 'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent, That day he overcame the Nervii. But whate'er you are That in this desert inaccessible, Under the shade of melancholy boughs, Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time; If ever you have look'd on better days, If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church, If ever sat at any good ma Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it. And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?LADY MACDUFF. Shee is desperate heere:A peeuish selfe-will'd Harlotry,One that no perswasion can doe good vpon. Well, I am school'd:Good-manners be your speede;Heere come your Wiues, and let vs take our leaue. Look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio; Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure. If the tagrag people did not clap him and hiss him according as he pleased and displeased them, as they use todo the players in the theatre, I am no true man. Lords, I protest my soul is full of woe That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow. I do not like the office; But sith I am enter'd in this cause so far, Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love, I will go on. "Glamis thou art, and Cawdor; and shalt beWhat thou art promis'd; yet do I fear thy nature;It is too full o' the milk of human kindnessTo catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;Art not without ambition; but withoutThe illness should attend it. My father? spirit in arms! All is not well; I doubt some foul play: would the night were come! Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise, Though all the earth o?rwhelm them, to men? eyes. I do not doubt But that my noble master will appear Such as he is, full of regard and honor. Marry, sir, they have committed false report; moreover,they have spoken untruths; secondarily, they are slanders; sixthand lastly, they have belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust things; and to conclude, they are lying knaves. Cannot, is false, and that I dare not, falser: I will not come today. With that he gaue his able Horse the head,And bending forwards strooke his able heelesAgainst the panting sides of his poore IadeVp to the Rowell head, and starting so,He seem'd in running, to deuoure the way,Staying no longer question North. But who comes here? My father, poorly led? World, world, O world! But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee, Life would not yield to age. In few; his death (whose spirit lent a fire,Euen to the dullest Peazant in his Campe)Being bruited once, tooke fire and heate awayFrom the best temper'd Courage in his Troopes. A halter pardon him! And hell gnaw his bones! Why should he call her whore? Who keeps her company? What place? What time? What form? What likelihood? The Moor's abused by some most villainous knave, Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow. ExitSHERIFF Our abbeys and our priories shall pay This expedition's charge. Well said, noble woman!Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but thatThe violent fit o' the time craves it as physicFor the whole state, I would put mine armour on,Which I can scarcely bear. Re-enter BIGOT and attendants, who bring in KING JOHN in a chair KING JOHN. The gods have well prevented it, and RomeSits safe and still without him. He may keepe his owne Grace, but he is almost out ofmine, I can assure him. An if you do, you will but make it blush And glow with shame of your proceedings, Hubert. Night hangs upon mine eyes, my bones would rest That have but labor'd to attain this hour. Black spirits and white, red spirits and gray;Mingle, mingle, mingle, you that mingle may. Vnder which King?Bezonian, speake, or dye Shal. Hang 'em! They say!They'll sit by th' fire and presume to knowWhat's done i' the Capitol; who's like to rise,Who thrives and who declines; side factions, and give outConjectural marriages; making parties strong,And feebling such as stand not in their likMy lord? Brutus and Lucilius converse apart. Naughty lady, These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin Will quicken, and accuse thee. But wherefore could not I pronounce "Amen"?I had most need of blessing, and "Amen"Stuck in my throat. Nay, I will: that's flat:He said, he would not ransome Mortimer:Forbad my tongue to speake of Mortimer. Indeed! DESDEMONA. That I should be attach'd in Ephesus, I tell you 'twill sound harshly in her cars. I think that one of them is hereabout, And cannot make away. The tartness of his face sours ripe grapes:when he walks, he moves like an engine, and the ground shrinksbefore his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with his eye,talks like a knell, and his hum is a battery. ) Where's Wart? you see whata ragged appearance it is: hee shall charge you, anddischarge you, with the motion of a Pewterers Hammer:come off, and on, swifter then hee that gibbets onthe Brewers Bucket. My blood hath beene too cold and temperate,Vnapt to stirre at these indignities,And you haue found me; for accordingly,You tread vpon my patience: But be sure,I will from henceforth rather be my Selfe,Mighty, and to be fear'd, then my conditionWhich hat My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely; Two of the dangerous consorted traitors That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow. If this may please you,Discharge your Powers vnto their seuerall Counties,As wee will ours: and here, betweene the Armies,Let's drinke together friendly, and embrace,That all their eyes may beare those Tokens home,Of our restored Loue, and Amitie Bish. Why didst thou tell me, that thou wer't a King? Hot. You shall observe him, And his own courses will denote him so That I may save my speech. Full thirty times hath Phoebus?cart gone round Neptune? salt wash and Tellus?orbed ground, And thirty dozen moons with borrow? sheen About the world have times twelve thirties been, Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands, Unite commutual in most Be that you seem, truly your country's friends,And temperately proceed to what you would Thus violently redress. Her eyes are fierce; but thine Do comfort, and not burn. Good lords, although my will to give is living, The suit which you demand is gone and dead: He tells us Arthur is deceas'd to-night. My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is chang'd; You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower. He that lies slain here, Cassio, Was my dear friend; what malice was between you? CASSIO. O Caesar! These things are beyond all use, And I do fear them. And he will bless that cross with otherbeating; Between you I shall have a holy head. It shall be to your good; for my father's house and all therevenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I estate upon you, and herelive and die a shepherd. How am I then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course, Directly to his good? Divinity of hell! When devils will the blackest sins put on, They do suggest at first with heavenly shows, As I do now. May it please your Grace, Antipholus, my husband, Who I made lord of me and all I had At your important letters-this ill day A most outrageous fit of madness took him, That desp'rately he hurried through the street, With him his bondman all as mad as he Then must you speak Of one that loved not wisely but too well; Of one not easily jealous, but, being wrought, Perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand, Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes, Alb Enter the Earle of Warwicke, and the Lord Chiefe Iustice. If, till the expiration of your month, You will return and sojourn with my sister, Dismissing half your train, come then to me. I do profess to be no less than I seem, to serve himtruly that will put me in trust, to love him that is honest, to converse with him that is wise and says little, to fear judgment, to fight when I cannot choose, and to eat no fish. Yet I wish, sir,--I mean, for your particular,--you had notJoin'd in commission with him; but eitherHad borne the action of yourself, or else To him had left it solely. Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu; He'll shape his old course in a country new. It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, ifshe will not discover it. If every one knows us, and we know none, 'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone. The Forest of ArdenEnter ROSALIND for GANYMEDE, CELIA for ALIENA, and CLOWN aliasTOUCHSTONE ROSALIND. Most shallow man! thou worm's meat in respect of agood piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and perpend: civetis of a baser birth than tarthe very uncleanly flux of a cat. My Knight, I will enflame thy Noble Liuer, andmake thee rage. Fie, brother, how the world is chang'd with you! When were you wont to use my sister thus? She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner. No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, andthe old ornament of his cheek hath already stuff'd tennis balls. O, sir, we quarrel in print by the book, as youhave books for good manners. And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit buthurt not. [to Goneril] Detested kite, thou liest! My train are men of choice and rarest parts, That all particulars of duty know And in the most exact regard support The worships of their name. Blest fig's-end! The wine she drinks is made of grapes. Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so, To make my end too sudden. Thou hast done much harme vntome Hall, God forgiue thee for it. Enter FITZWATER FITZWATER. Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers Into your favor. I tell thee Ned, thou hast lost much honor, that thouwer't not with me in this action: but sweet Ned, to sweetenwhich name of Ned, I giue thee this peniworth of Sugar,clapt euen now into my hand by an vnder Skinker,one that neuer spake other English in  What, will you walk with me about the town, And then go to my inn and dine with me?FIRST MERCHANT. It will be short: the interim is mine; And a man? life is no more than to say One. This Volumnia Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,A city full: of tribunes such as you,A sea and land full. They say poor suitors have strong breaths; they shall knowwe have strong arms too. 'Tis such fools as you That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children. O thou weed, Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst ne'er beenborn! DESDEMONA. The present wars devour him: he is grownToo proud to be so valiant. Nay you shall finde noBoyes play heere, I can tell you. I had rather have one scratch my head i' the sunWhen the alarum were struck, than idly sitTo hear my nothings monster'd. Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail And say there is no sin but to be rich; And being rich, my virtue then shall be To say there is no vice but beggary. Come, manage me your Calyuer: so: very well,go-too, very good, exceeding good. Truly, I would the gods had made thee poetical. In brief: we are the King of England's subjects; For him, and in his right, we hold this town. Would God that any in this noble presence Were enough noble to be upright judge Of noble Richard! Then true noblesse would Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong. What concern they?The general cause? or is it a fee-griefDue to some single breast?ROSS. I will deal in poison withthee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy with thee infaction; will o'er-run thee with policy; I will kill thee a hundredand fifty ways; therefore tremble and depart. And i haue not forgotten what thein-side of a Church is made of, I am a Pepper-Corne, aBrewers Horse, the in-side of a Church. Fillet of a fenny snake,In the caldron boil and bake;Eye of newt, and toe of frog,Wool of bat, and tongue of dog,Adder's fork, and blind-worm's sting,Lizard's leg, and howlet's wing,--For a charm of powerful trouble,Like a hell-broth boil and bubble. Thy father's father wore it; And thy father bore it. Only we still retain The name, and all th' additions to a king. Nay, then, God buy you, an you talk in blank verse. Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here; Those that will follow Cassius, go with him; And public reasons shall be rendered Of Caesar's death. Falls on the bed, anddies. She did deceive her father, marrying you; And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks, She loved them most. What, have you got the picture of old Adam new-apparell'd?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice. See else yourself: There is no malice in this burning coal; The breath of heaven hath blown his spirit out, And strew'd repentant ashes on his head. Exeunt [Dogberry and Verges]. Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee. Forgive me this my virtue; For in the fatness of these pursy times Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg, Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good. I sent you money, sir, to be your bail, By Dromio; but I think he brought it not. Come, sister, willyou go? ExeuntSCENE III. Seek thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and gowithout her. If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the Prince's subjects. Charge me? I scorne you (scuruie Companion)what? you poore, base, rascally, cheating, lacke-Linnen-Mate:away you mouldie Rogue, away; I am meat foryour Master Pist. I will bid thee draw, as we do the minstrel--draw to pleasure us. Before the curing of a strong disease, Even in the instant of repair and health, The fit is strongest; evils that take leave On their departure most of all show evil; What have you lost by losing of this day? LEWIS. Should we be silent and not speak, our raimentAnd state of bodies would bewray what lifeWe have led since thy exile. Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursley Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse Is all of her. When I desir'd him to come home to dinner, He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold. [Exit LUCIANA] This I wonder at: Thus he unknown to me should be in debt. Upon condition Publius shall not live, Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony. Lady, you come hither to be married to this count? Hero. Some sins do bear their privilege on earth, And so doth yours: your fault was not your folly; Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose, Subjected tribute to commanding love, Against whose fury and unmatched force The aweless lion could not wage the  Mowbray, you ouer-weene to take it so:This Offer comes from Mercy, not from Feare. If I had my mouth, I would bite; if I had myliberty, I would do my liking. O gull! O dolt! As ignorant as dirt! Thou hast done a deed I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known, Though I lost twenty lives. When these prodigies Do so conjointly meet, let not men say "These are their reasons; they are natural": For I believe they are portentous things Unto the climate that they point upon. If your diligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore you. We will before the walls of Rome to-morrowSet down our host. You are welcome, masters; welcome, all:? am glad to see thee well. --'Sdeath!The rabble should have first unroof'd the cityEre so prevail'd with me: it will in timeWin upon power, and throw forth greater themesFor insurrection's arguing. He will divorce you, Or put upon you what restraint and grievance The law, with all his might to enforce it on, Will give him cable. Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knives point,and choke a daw withal. To Coriolanus come all joy and honour![Flourish. I like him not; nor stands it safe with us To let his madness range. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants. Thy State is taken for a Ioyn'd-Stoole, thy GoldenScepter for a Leaden Dagger, and thy precious richCrowne, for a pittifull bald Crowne Falst. He wants nothing of a god buteternity, and a heaven to throne in. If thou dost marry, I?l give thee this plague for thy dowry,?be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. I have mark'd A thousand blushing apparitions To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames In angel whiteness beat away those blushes, And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire To burn the errors that these princes hold Against her maiden truth. Only have a care thatyour bills be not stol'n. If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear it werehis; but in respect of that, I would fain think it were not. I saw Othello's visage in his mind, And to his honors and his valiant parts Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate. Pray, be content:Mother, I am going to the market-place;Chide me no more. Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;Thy exercise hath been too violentFor a second course of fight. How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus givesway to loyalty, something fears me to think of. You are right Iustice, and you weigh this well:Therefore still beare the Ballance, and the Sword:And I do wish your Honors may encrease,Till you do liue, to see a Sonne of mineOffend you, and obey you, as I did. If you bethink yourself of any crime Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace, Solicit for it straight. Heere come the heauy Issue of dead Harrie:O, that the liuing Harrie had the temperOf him, the worst of these three Gentlemen:How many Nobles then, should hold their places,That must strike saile, to Spirits of vilde sort? Ch. The edge of Warre, like an ill-sheathed knife,No more shall cut his Master. Zounds! I was never so bethump'd with words Since I first call'd my brother's father dad. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet: I pray thee stay with us; go not to Wittenberg. Why, now you speak Like a good child and a true gentleman. How now my Lady the Hostesse, what say'stthou to me? Hostesse. We have here recover'd the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever wasknown in the commonwealth. This dream is all amiss interpreted; It was a vision fair and fortunate. My Lord Northumberland,We License your departure with your sonne,Send vs your Prisoners, or you'l heare of it. When last the young Orlando parted from you, He left a promise to return again Within an hour; and, pacing through the forest, Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy, Lo, what befell! He threw his eye aside, And mark what object did present itself. These sentences, to sugar or to gall, Being strong on both sides, are equivocal. I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow. Now your traveller, He and his toothpick at my worship's mess And when my knightly stomach is suffic'd, Why then I suck my teeth and catechize My picked man of countries: 'My dear sir,' Thus leaning on mine elbow I begin 'I shall beseech you'-That is qu Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell His way to Dover. No, truly; for the truest poetry is the mostfeigning, and lovers are given to poetry; and what they swear in poetrymay be said as lovers they do feign. The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman in our more rawer breath? Osr. If our father would sleep till I wak'd him, you should enjoy half his revenue for ever, andlive the beloved of your brother, 'EDGAR. It is my study To seem despiteful and ungentle to you. There is a fat friend at your master's house, That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner; She now shall be my sister, not my wife. If JupiterShould from yond cloud speak divine things,And say ''Tis true,' I'd not believe them moreThan thee, all noble Marcius. Even then this forked plague is fated to us When we do quicken. Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great matter in the ditty, yet the note was very untuneable. --Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, andMy friends of noble touch; when I am forth,Bid me farewell, and smile. But let the frame of things disjoint,Both the worlds suffer,Ere we will eat our meal in fear, and sleepIn the affliction of these terrible dreamsThat shake us nightly: better be with the dead,Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,Than on the tor--I will not be afraid of death and bane,Till Birnam forest come to Dunsinane. In the heaviness of sleep We put fresh garments on him. Peace, fellow, peace; stand aside: Know youwhere you are? For the other sir Iohn: Let me see: SimonShadow Fal. Hence therefore thou nice crutch,A scalie Gauntlet now, with ioynts of SteeleMust gloue this hand. Good friends, go in and taste some wine with me, And we like friends will straightway go together. The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it With lusty sinews, throwing it aside And stemming it with hearts of controversy. As they pass by, pluck Casca by the sleeve, And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you What hath proceeded worthy note today. Farewell good Brother, we shall thriue, I trust Hot. I must attend the Duke at dinner; by two o'clock Iwill be with thee again. So that this Land, like an offensiue wife,That hath enrag'd him on, to offer strokes,As he is striking, holds his Infant vp,And hangs resolu'd Correction in the Arme,That was vprear'd to execution Hast. O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I! Is it not monstrous that this player here, But in a fiction, in a dream of passion, Could force his soul so to his own conceit That from her working all his visage wan?; Tears in his eyes, distraction in? aspect,  'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you wereready. O sir Iohn, doe you remember since wee lay allnight in the Winde-mill, in S[aint]. lack subiects? Donot the Rebels want Soldiers? Though it be a shame to beon any side but one, it is worse shame to begge, then tobe on the worst side, were it worse then the name of Rebellioncan tell how to make it Ser. No, my lord, unless I might have another for workingdays: your Grace is too costly to wear every day. Be with me betimes in the Morning: and so good morrowPeto Peto. My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship, To-day, as I came by, I called there But I shall grieve you to report the rest. Your face hath got five hundred pound a year, Yet sell your face for fivepence and 'tis dear. Othello, leave some officer behind, And he shall our commission bring to you, With such things else of quality and respect As doth import you. Ah me, what act, That roars so loud, and thunders in the index? Ham. That's to ye sworn to none was ever said; For feasts of love I have been called unto, Till now did ne'er invite nor never woo. Have I caught thee? He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven And fire us hence like foxes. I pray you mar no more trees with writing love songs in their barks. Then fairly I bespoke the officer To go in person with me to my house. Why that's certaine: 'Tis dangerous to take a Colde, tosleepe, to drinke: but I tell you (my Lord foole) out ofthis Nettle, Danger; we plucke this Flower, Safety. Vertue is of so little regard in these Costormongers,that true valor is turn'd Beare-heard. '"Look here what tributes wounded fancies sent me, Of paled pearls and rubies red as blood; Figuring that they their passions likewise lent me Of grief and blushes, aptly understood In bloodless white and the encrimsoned mood Effects of terror and dear  If thou hadst been Dromio to-day in my place, Thou wouldst have chang'd thy face for a name, or thy name foran ass. Marry, here's grace and a codpiece; that's a wise man anda fool. If for my sake Thou wilt o'ertake us hence a mile or twain I' th' way toward Dover, do it for ancient love; And bring some covering for this naked soul, Who I'll entreat to lead me. Who is hereso rude that would not be a Roman? If any, speak, for him have I offended. These two Antipholus', these two so like, And these two Dromios, one in semblance Besides her urging of her wreck at sea These are the parents to these children, Which accidentally are met together. A trusty villain, sir, that very oft, When I am dull with care and melancholy, Lightens my humour with his merry jests. If this be so, why blame you me to love you? ORLANDO. Love is merely a madness; and, I tell you, deservesas well a dark house and a whip as madmen do; and the reason why they are not so punish'd and cured is that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love too. If again it was not well cut, he disabled myjudgment. The Tide of Blood in me,Hath prowdly flow'd in Vanity, till now. I am trusted with a muzzle and enfranchis'd with a clog; therefore I have decreed not tosing in my cage. Ay; and you'll look paleBefore you find it other. No, Ile be sworne: I make as good vse of it, asmany a man doth of a Deaths-Head, or a Memento Mori. If they wrong her honour, The proudest of them shall well hear of it. No, I'll nor sell nor give him: lend you him I willFor half a hundred years. Why, let the strucken deer go weep, The hart ungalled play; For some must watch, while some must sleep: So runs the world away. This ensign here of mine was turning back; I slew the coward, and did take it from him. Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves? Alas, you know not; I must tell you then. Let it sound no more; For though it have holp madmen to their wits, In me it seems it will make wise men mad. But heavenly Rosalind! ExitSCENE III. I wonder in my soul, What you would ask me, that I should deny, Or stand so mammering on. I will tell you the beginning, and, if it please your ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is yet to do;and here, where you are, they are coming to perform it. Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect My love should kindle to inflam'd respect. Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made; Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him. Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other station; here's noplace for you. There's her cousin, an she were not possess'd with afury,exceeds her as much in beauty as the first of May doth the last of December. Think of this, good peers,But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other,Only it spoils the pleasure of the time. Enter Cornwall, Regan, Gloucester, Servants. I am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwarthis affection ranges evenly with mine. O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine That laid the sentence of dread banishment On yon proud man should take it off again With words of sooth! O that I were as great As is my grief, or lesser than my name! Or that I could forget what I have been! The love of wicked men converts to fear; That fear to hate; and hate turns one or both To worthy danger and deserved death. Bear away that child, And follow me with speed. Lift up thy brow, renowned Salisbury, And with a great heart heave away this storm; Commend these waters to those baby eyes That never saw the giant world enrag'd, Nor met with fortune other than at feasts, Full of warm blood, of mirth, of gossiping. My master preaches patience to him, and the while His man with scissors nicks him like a fool; And sure, unless you send some present help, Between them they will kill the conjurer. Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect By your eyes' anguish. And why should Caesar be a tyrant then? Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf But that he sees the Romans are but sheep. Lucius, I say! I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly. --Hark!--Peace!It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,Which gives the stern'st good night. Your hand, and yours:Ere in our own house I do shade my head,The good patricians must be visited;From whom I have receiv'd not only greetings,But with them change of honours. Fie! Your sword upon a woman? EMILIA. But I will tarry; the fool will stay, And let the wise man fly. He hath not yet made wanton the night with her, and she is sport for Jove. Therefore be merry (Cooze) since sodaine sorrowSerues to say thus: some good thing comes to morrow Bish. Were it not better, Because that I am more than common tall, That I did suit me all points like a man? A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh, A boar spear in my hand; andin my heart Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will We'll have a swashing and a  O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell, and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams. Now here's another discontented paper, Found in his pocket too; and this, it seems, Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain; But that, belike, Iago in the interim Came in and satisfied him. O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was That turn'd your wit the seamy side without, And made you to suspect me with the Moor. Even in condition of the worst degree In gross rebellion and detested treason. Gentlemen, go muster up your men And meet me presently at Berkeley. First, who think you the most desartless man to beconstable? 1. Enter SILVIUS SILVIUS. Strike, you slave! Stand, rogue! Stand, you neat slave! Strike! [Beats him. Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound, I have by hard adventure found mine own. And the noble and true-hearted Kent banish'd! his offence, honesty! 'Tis strange. I have no way, and therefore want no eyes; I stumbled when I saw. To who, my lord? Who has the office? Send Thy token of reprieve. I will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labours,which is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of affection th' one with th' other. The DUKE OF YORK's gardenEnter the QUEEN and two LADIES QUEEN. Exeunt Othello, Lodovico, andAttendants. KING JOHN'S palaceEnter KING JOHN, PANDULPH, and attendants KING JOHN. Hereofcomes it, that Prince Harry is valiant: for the cold bloodhee did naturally inherite of his Father, hee hath, likeleane, stirrill, and bare Land, manured, husbanded, andtyll'd, with excellent endeauour of drinking good, andgood store of fertile Sh All these you may avoid but theLie Direct; and you may avoid that too with an If. Good Duke, receive thy daughter; Hymen from heaven brought her, Yea, brought her hither, That thou mightst join her hand with his, Whose heart within his bosom is. You hear how he importunes me-the chain!ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. An had been a man of any occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word, I wouldI might go to hell among the rogues. O God, that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains! that weshould, with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves into beasts! IAGO. Titus Lartius writes,--they fought together, but Aufidiusgot off. By heaven, I?l make a ghost of him that lets me!?I say, away!?o on; I?l follow thee. If the assassinationCould trammel up the consequence, and catch,With his surcease, success; that but this blowMight be the be-all and the end-all--here,But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,--We'd jump the life to come. --Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,I'll frame convenient peace. And the creature run from the cur? There thou mightstbehold the great image of authority: a dog's obeyed in office. Will it serve for any model to build mischief on? What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness? Bora. As I stood here below, methought his eyes Were two full moons; he had a thousand noses, Horns whelk'd and wav'd like the enridged sea. Come, Gertrude, we?l call up our wisest friends; And let them know both what we mean to do And what? untimely done: so haply slander,?Whose whisper o?r the world? diameter, As level as the cannon to his blank, Transports his poison? shot,?ay miss our n 
Though it be not written down, yet forget not that I am an ass. Enter King Henrie the Fift, Brothers, LordChiefeIustice. Your worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but variable service,?wo dishes, but to one table: that? the end. Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes. You are plebeians,If they be senators: and they are no lessWhen, both your voices blended, the great'st tasteMost palates theirs. Nay, it is true, or else I am a Turk: You rise to play, and go to bed to work. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed. O spite of spites! We talk with goblins, owls, and sprites. This inundation of mistemp'red humour Rests by you only to be qualified. You know the character to be your brother's? Edm. I lov'd him, friend No father his son dearer. Is hee so hastie, that hee doth supposeMy sleepe, my death? Finde him (my Lord of Warwick)Chide him hither: this part of his conioynesWith my disease, and helpes to end me. To who? Re-enter Othello. He tells me, my sweet queen, he hath found The head and source of all your son? distemper. How now good Blunt? thy Lookes are full of speed Blunt. You should account me the more virtuous, that I have not beencommon in my love. Now tell me how long you would have her, after youhave possess'd her. And if the diuell come and roare for themI will not send them. Thou hast my love; is not that neighbourly? SILVIUS. No, for I hold him to be unworthy of his place thatdoes those things. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker? daughter. Nell, sir; but her name and three quarters, that's an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from hip to hip. And when you lov'd you were my other husband. I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine; My name is Constance; I was Geffrey's wife; Young Arthur is my son, and he is lost. The other Night I fell asleepe heere behind theArras, and had my Pocket pickt: this House is turn'dBawdy-house, they picke Pockets Prince. Money by me! Heart and goodwill you might, But surely, master, not a rag of money. O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown! Or Charles or something weaker masters thee. Enter KEEPER with meat KEEPER. So, your opinion is, Aufidius,That they of Rome are enter'd in our counselsAnd know how we proceed. This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon; For he was great of heart. When the hurlyburly's done,When the battle's lost and won. [To the BASTARD] Cousin, away for England! haste before, And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags Of hoarding abbots; imprisoned angels Set at liberty; the fat ribs of peace Must by the hungry now be fed upon. Now, God help thee, poor monkey! But how wiltthou do for a father?SON. Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so That heaven's vault should crack. But as we often see, against some storm, A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, The bold winds speechless, and the orb below As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus?pause, A roused vengeance sets him  The woe's to come; the children yet unborn Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn. Milk-liver'd man! That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs; Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd Ere they have done their mischief. O mother, mother!What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,The gods look down, and this unnatural sceneThey laugh at. I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul. What gold is this? What Adam dost thoumean?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. O that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth! Then with a passion would I shake the world, And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice, Which scorns a modern invocation. Who, he? I think the sun where he was born Drew all such humors from him. You whorson Candle-myne you, how vildlydid you speake of me euen now, before this honest, vertuous,ciuill Gentlewoman? Host. Your judgments, my grave lords, Must give this cur the lie: and his own notion,--Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him; that must bearMy beating to his grave,--shall join to thrustThe lie unto him. The Leaders hauing charge from you to stand,Will not goe off, vntill they heare you speake Iohn. The liues of all your louing ComplicesLeane-on your health, the which if you giue-o'reTo stormy Passion, must perforce decay. Yfaith, my Lord, they are false: Nay, Ile tickleye for a young Prince Prin. Hee was the veryGenius of Famine: hee came euer in the rere-ward ofthe Fashion: And now is this Vices Dagger become aSquire, and talkes as familiarly of Iohn of Gaunt, as ifhee had beene sworne Brother to him: and Ile be swornehee neuer saw him but once Nay, taske me to my word: approue me Lord Dow. But Margaret was in some fault for this, Although against her will, as it appears In the true course of all the question. --With a kind of smile, Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus,--For, look you, I may make the belly smileAs well as speak,--it tauntingly repliedTo the discontented members, the mutinous partsThat envied his receipt; even so most fitlyAs you malCommend me to one Hubert, with your King; The love of him-and this respect besides, For that my grandsire was an Englishman Awakes my conscience to confess all this. , accompanied by Senators,Patricians, and Citizens. Put up thy sword betime; Or I'll so maul you and your toasting-iron That you shall think the devil is come from hell. I think not of them:Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,We would spend it in some words upon that business,If you would grant the time. Be of good comfort, Prince; for you are born To set a form upon that indigest Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude. [Cry within] Hark, hark, I hear him, mistress; fly, be gone!DUKE. O slaves, I can tell you news,--news, you rascals!FIRST and SECOND SERVANT. --Thou marvell'st at my words: but hold thee still;Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill:So, pr'ythee, go with me. There's my gauntlet; I'll proveit on a giant. I would have thoughther spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection. Take not, good cousin, further than you should, Lest you mistake. True or false, it hath made thee Earl of Gloucester. Opens the letter and reads. My pride fell with my fortunes; I'll ask him what he would. Go then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and theCount Claudio alone; tell them that you know that Hero loves me;intend a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as--in love of your brother's honour, who hath made this match, and hisfriend's r Neither; he took this place for sanctuary, And it shall privilege him from your hands Till I have brought him to his wits again, Or lose my labour in assaying it. Cassio's my worthy friend My lord, I see you're moved. Let shame come when it will, I do not call it. For my part, I may speake it to my shame,I haue a Truant beene to Chiualry,And so I heare, he doth account me too:Yet this before my Fathers Maiesty,I am content that he shall take the oddesOf his great name and estimation,And will, to saue the blood on But, how? how satisfied, my lord? Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on? Behold her topp'd? OTHELLO. Of a certain knight that swore by his honour theywere good pancakes, and swore by his honour the mustard wasnaught. The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?ROSS. You thus employ'd, I will go root away The noisome weeds which without profit suck The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers. Heigh-ho, an't be not foure by the day, Ile behang'd. Come all to ruin: letThy mother rather feel thy pride than fearThy dangerous stoutness; for I mock at deathWith as big heart as thou. Let me love him for that; and do you love him becauseI do. It is to be all made of faith and service; And so am I for Phebe. Keepout, che vore ye, or Ise try whether your costard or my ballow bethe harder. God and the rope-maker bear me witness That I was sent for nothing but a rope!PINCH. For when my outward action doth demonstrate The native act and figure of my heart In complement extern, 'tis not long after But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve For daws to peck at: I am not what I am. Thither will I invite the Duke and all's contented followers. Sir Richard, what think you? Have you beheld, Or have you read or heard, or could you think? Or do you almost think, although you see, That you do see? Could thought, without this object, Form such another? This is the very top, The height, the crest, o Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof, Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth And made defeat of her virginity- Claud. Know thou first,I lov'd the maid I married; never manSighed truer breath; but that I see thee here,Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heartThan when I first my wedded mistress saw Bestride my threshold. Beleeue me, I am passing light in spirit Mow. Dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee getus some excellent music; for to-morrow night we would have it atthe Lady Hero's chamber window. It is a purpos'd thing, and grows by plot,To curb the will of the nobility:Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule,Nor ever will be rul'd. But if you fondly pass our proffer'd offer, 'Tis not the roundure of your old-fac'd walls Can hide you from our messengers of war, Though all these English and their discipline Were harbour'd in their rude circumference. O that I had him,With six Aufidiuses, or more, his tribe,To use my lawful sword!AUFIDIUS. Parle without, and answer within; then a flourish. If we can dothis, Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for weare the only love-gods. This last old man,Whom with crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,Lov'd me above the measure of a father;Nay, godded me indeed. O-Sixpence that I had a Wednesday last To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper? The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and report speaks goldenly of his profit. The spirit that I have seen May be the devil: and the devil hath power To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps Out of my weakness and my melancholy,?As he is very potent with such spirits,?74 Abuses me to damn me: I?l have grounds More relative tha What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester? Edm. How long will a man lie i?the earth ere he rot? 1 Clown. How? The Duke in council? In this time of the night? Bring him away; Mine's not an idle cause. Have youEre now denied the asker, and now again,Of him that did not ask but mock, bestowYour su'd-for tongues?THIRD CITIZEN. This is the man should do the bloody deed: He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine; The image of a wicked heinous fault Lives in his eye; that close aspect of his Doth show the mood of a much troubled breast, And I do fearfully believe 'tis done What  My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise. Of much less value is my company Than your good words. In Poyson, there is Physicke: and this newes(Hauing beene well) that would haue made me sicke,Being sicke, haue in some measure, made me well. --I have no spurTo prick the sides of my intent, but onlyVaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself,And falls on the other. Speak England first, that hath been forward first To speak unto this city: what say you? KING JOHN. O, she was foul! I scarce did know you, uncle; there lies your niece, Whose breath indeed these hands have newly stopp'd. The one is too like an image andsays nothing, and the other too like my lady's eldest son,evermore tattling. O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note, To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears. I have a kind soul that would give you thanks, And knows not how to do it but with tears. My cue is villainous melancholy, with a sigh like Tom o'Bedlam. Death, traitor! nothing could have subdu'd nature To such a lowness but his unkind daughters. Esperance, bid Butler lead him forthinto the Parke La. Why in that rawness left you wife and child,--Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,--Without leave-taking?--I pray you,Let not my jealousies be your dishonors,But mine own safeties:--you may be rightly just,Whatever I shall think. Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother; I see by you I am a sweet-fac'd youth. Why seek'st thou to possess me with these fears? Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death? Thy hand hath murd'red him. Fairies and gods Prosper it with thee! Go thou further off; Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going. What would'st thou think of me, if I shold weep? Poin. Brutus, come apace, And see how I regarded Caius Cassius. Beenot too familiar with Pointz, for hee misuses thy Fauours somuch, that he sweares thou art to marrie his Sister Nell. Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed, Yea, providently caters for the sparrow, Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold; All this I give you. She is ofso free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition, she holds ita vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested. Tell me else,Could such inordinate and low desires,Such poore, such bare, such lewd, such meane attempts,Such barren pleasures, rude societie,As thou art matcht withall, and grafted too,Accompanie the greatnesse of thy blood,And hold their leuell with t Their shadows seem A canopy most fatal, under which Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost. The King, I fear, is poison'd by a monk; I left him almost speechless and broke out To acquaint you with this evil, that you might The better arm you to the sudden time Than if you had at leisure known of this. When workmen strive to do better than well, They do confound their skill in covetousness; And oftentimes excusing of a fault Doth make the fault the worse by th' excuse, As patches set upon a little breach Discredit more in hiding of the fault Than did  The Earle Northumberland, and the Lord Bardolfe,With a great Power of English, and of Scots,Are by the Sherife of Yorkeshire ouerthrowne:The manner, and true order of the fight,This Packet (please it you) containes at large King. And the like tender of our love we make, To rest without a spot for evermore. Now the fair goddess, Fortune,Fall deep in love with thee; and her great charmsMisguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,Prosperity be thy page!MARCIUS. The shrill-gorg'd lark so far Cannot be seen or heard. Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My lord, if you'll give me leave, I will tread this unbolted villaininto mortar and daub the walls of a jakes with him. Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see the puppets dallying. Enter BOLINGBROKE and MOWBRAY BOLINGBROKE. Are you yet determin'd To-day to marry with my brother's daughter? Claud. [Within] What a coil is there, Dromio? Who are those atthe gate?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. [Aside to CELIA] I will speak to him like a saucylackey, and under that habit play the knave with him. Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear; Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away? Say, shall the current of our right run on? Whose passage, vex'd with thy impediment, Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell With course disturb'd even thy confining shores, Unless thou let his silver If he be taken, he shall never more Be fear'd of doing harm. This man hath had good counsel! A hundred knights? 'Tis politic and safe to let him keep At point a hundred knights; yes, that on every dream, Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike, He may enguard his dotage with their pow'rs And hold our lives Judge me, you gods! Wrong I mine enemies? And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother? CASSIUS. What your wisdoms could not discover, theseshallow fools have brought to light, who in the night overheard me confessing to this man, how Don John your brother incensed meto slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchardand saw me court Ma Her name, that was as fresh As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black As mine own face. There is a thing within my Bosome tells me,That no Conditions of our Peace can stand Hast. I will imitate the honourable Romaines in breuitie Poin. That thrust had been mine enemy indeed, But that my coat is better than thou know'st; I will make proof of thine. Hence and avoid my sight! So be my grave my peace as here I give Her father's heart from her! Call France! Who stirs? Call Burgundy! Cornwall and Albany, With my two daughters' dowers digest this third; Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby, Stands here for God, his sovereign, and himself, On pain to be found false and recreant, To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray, A traitor to his God, his King, and him; And dares him to set forward to the  Fly further off, my lord, fly further off; Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord; Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off. O, by no means! She mocks all her wooers out of suit. Now begin; For look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs Close by the ground, to hear our conference. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy nor Plautus t Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so, Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe. She is importunate; indeed distract: Her mood will needs be pitied. We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns, Which live like venom where no venom else But only they have privilege to live. But on the sight of us your lawful king, Who painfully with much expedient march Have brought a countercheck before your gates, To save unscratch'd your city's threat'ned cheeks Behold, the French amaz'd vouchsafe a parle; And now, instead of bullets wr Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle. Spread Dauy, spread Dauie:Well said Dauie Falst. Horatio, thou art e?n as just a man As e?r my conversation cop? withal. But be it as it may be, Iwill marry thee; and to that end I have been with Sir OliverMartext, the vicar of the next village, who hath promis'd to meet mein this place of the forest, and to couple us. But it shall not be so long; thiswrestler shall clear all. Most noble sir,If you do hold the same intent whereinYou wish'd us parties, we'll deliver youOf your great danger. Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and black,this plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass. This Sir Iohn (Cousin) that comes hither anon aboutSouldiers? Shal. Like an unseasonable stormy day Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores, As if the world were all dissolv'd to tears, So high above his limits swells the rage Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land With hard bright steel and hearts harder t The world esteem'd thy father honourable, But I did find him still mine enemy. May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit? BOLINGBROKE. From a Prince, to a Prentice, a low transformation,that shall be mine: for in euery thing, the purposemust weigh with the folly. O it is muchthat a Lye (with a slight Oath) and a iest (with a saddebrow) will doe, with a Fellow, that neuer had the Achein his shoulders. That's as much as to say they are fools thatmarry. What might import my sister's letter to him? Osw. Sir, Isay to you, it is thought you are false knaves. Hostesse, my breakfast, come:Oh, I could wish this Tauerne were my drumme. What art thou that keep'st me out from the house I owe?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. The god of soldiers,With the consent of supreme Jove, informThy thoughts with nobleness; that thou mayst proveTo shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the warsLike a great sea-mark, standing every flaw,And saving those that eye thee!VOLUMNIA. O sides, you are too tough! Will you yet hold? How came my man i' th' stocks? Corn. Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself, I find myself a traitor with the rest; For I have given here my soul's consent T'undeck the pompous body of a king; Made glory base, and sovereignty a slave, Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant. I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield upon great persuasion, and partly to save your life, for I wastold you were in a consumption. I am on fire,To heare this rich reprizall is so nigh,And yet not ours. Must I give way and room to your rash choler? Shall I be frighted when a madman stares? CASSIUS. That's euen as faire, as at hand quoth the Chamberlaine:For thou variest no more from picking of Purses,then giuing direction, doth from labouring. One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail. I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind,and come every day to my cote and woo me. You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her, Like foggy south, puffing with wind and rain? You are a thousand times a properer man Than she a woman. Go hie thee presently post to the road; An if the wind blow any way from shore, I will not harbour in this town to-night. SCENE 1Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUSEnter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, DROMIO OF EPHESUS, ANGELO, andBALTHAZARANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Pray you speak to 'em, I pray you,In wholesome manner. 'O father, what a hell of witchcraft lies In the small orb of one particular tear! But with the inundation of the eyes What rocky heart to water will not wear? What breast so cold that is not warmed here? O cleft effect! cold modesty, hot wrath, Both fi Peace, ho! Hear Antony, most noble Antony! ANTONY. An admirable evasion of whore-master man, tolay his goatish disposition to the charge of a star! My father compounded with my mother under the Dragon's Tail, and my nativity was under Ursa Major, so that it follows I am roughand lecherous. This shows you are above, You justicers, that these our nether crimes So speedily can venge! But O poor Gloucester! Lose he his other eye? Gent. Is he of God's making? What manner of man? Is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard? CELIA. In her forehead, arm'd and reverted, making war against her heir. Here I kneel: If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love Either in discourse of thought or actual deed, Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense, Delighted them in any other form, Or that I do not yet, and ever did, And ever will, though he do shak I haue in equall ballance iustly weigh'd,What wrongs our Arms may do, what wrongs we suffer,And finde our Griefes heauier then our Offences. Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally. Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his behalf as youhave uttered words in your own, you should not pass here: no,though it were as virtuous to lie as to live chastely. But what art thou That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble, I do forgive thee. Ah, ha!?ome, some music! Come, the recorders!?For if the king like not the comedy, Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy. Long stay? he so; At last,? little shaking of mine arm, And thrice his head thus waving up and down,?53 He rais? a sigh so piteous and profound As it did seem to shatter all his bulk And end his being: that done, he lets me go: And, with his head over h ' No, no, Orlando; menare April when they woo, December when they wed: maids are Maywhen they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives. If any hour meet a sergeant, 'a turns back for very fear. What, was I born to this, that my sad look Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke? Gard'ner, for telling me these news of woe, Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow! Exeunt QUEEN and LADIES GARDENER. Not I, My Lord, vnlesse I did bleed too Prin. And this, and this, the greatest discords be Kissesher. Now my Masters, happy man be his dole, say I:euery man to his businesse. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting That would not let me sleep: methought I lay Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. [Exit an attendant. O, God defend me! How am I beset! What kind of catechising call you this? Claud. What colour, madam? How shall I answer you? ROSALIND. Now to my word; It is ?dieu, adieu! remember me:?I have sworn?. [He plucks it out of his bosom, and reads it] Treason, foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave! DUCHESS. O, good my lord, I would speak a word withyou! OTHELLO. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme Until my eyelids will no longer wag. As with a man busied about decrees:Condemning some to death and some to exile;Ransoming him or pitying, threat'ning the other;Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash,To let him slip at will. Thus itis:--the Volsces have an army forth; against whom Cominius thegeneral is gone, with one part of our Roman power: your lord andTitus Lartius are set down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt prevailing, and to make it brief wars. And even now,To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:The castle of Macduff I will surprise;Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the swordHis wife, his babes, and all unfortunate soulsThat trace him in his line. The King would speak with Cornwall; the dear father Would with his daughter speak, commands her service. For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down; Myself could else outfrown false Fortune's frown. What, Lucius, ho! I cannot, by the progress of the stars, Give guess how near to day. In youth when I did love, did love, Methought it was very sweet; To contract, O, the time for, ah, my behove, O, methought there was nothing meet. I sometimes do believe and sometimes do not: As those that fear they hope, and know they fear. I may sit in a corner and cry 'Heigh-hofor a husband!' Pedro. No more of this, it does offend my heart;Pray now, no more. Come you Rogue, come:Bring me to a Iustice Host. My Tongueis weariewhen my Legs are too, I will bid you good night; and so kneeledowne beforeyoBut (indeed) to pray for the Queene. I would learn that; for, by the marks of sovereignty, Knowledge, and reason, I should be false persuaded I had daughters. I haue two BoyesSeeke Percy and thy selfe about the Field:But seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,I will assay thee: so defend thy selfe Dow. They found him dead, and cast into the streets, An empty casket, where the jewel of life By some damn'd hand was robbed and ta'en away. When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down And ask of thee forgiveness. Here I have a pilot's thumb,Wreck'd as homeward he did come. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head. I was before MasterTisick the Deputie, the other day: and as hee said to me,it was no longer agoe then Wednesday last: NeighbourQuickly (sayes hee;) Master Dombe, our Minister, was bythen: Neighbour Quickly (sayes hee) receiue those thatare Ciuill; for  He cannot come, my Lord,He is greeuous sicke Hot. Fare you well, my liege: I?l call upon you ere you go to bed, And tell you what I know. And therefore mark: John hath seiz'd Arthur; and it cannot be That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins, The misplac'd John should entertain an hour, One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest. Such welcome and unwelcome things at once'Tis hard to reconcile. What will you do with't, that you have been so earnest To have me filch it? IAGO. Is't come to this? OTHELLO. Now Cousin, wherefore stands our Army still? West. A perillous Gash, a very Limme lopt off:And yet, in faith, it is not his present wantSeemes more then we shall finde it. The ship is here put in, A Veronesa. Go, Dromio, there's the money; bear it straight, And bring thy master home immediately. I can find out no rhyme to 'lady' but'baby' --an innocent rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn'--a hard rhyme; for 'school', 'fool'--a babbling rhyme: very ominous endings! No,I was not born under a rhyming planet, nor cannot woo infestival terms. She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness, Her very silence and her patience, Speak to the people, and they pity her. I am one, my liege,Whom the vile blows and buffets of the worldHave so incens'd that I am reckless whatI do to spite the world. He attends here in the forest on theDuke, your father. I do entreat you, not a man depart, Save I alone, till Antony have spoke. --To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,To the last syllable of recorded time;And all our yesterdays have lighted foolsThe way to dusty death. Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes? Either his notion weakens, his discernings Are lethargiedHa! waking? 'Tis not so! Who is it that can tell me who I am? Fool. If you will watch his going thence, which his will fashion to fall out between twelve and one, you may take him at your pleasure; I will be near tosecond your attempt, and he shall fall between us. Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers, Throw this report on their incensed rage And make them tame to their obedience! Forgive the comment that my passion made Upon thy feature; for my rage was blind, And foul imaginary eyes of blood Presented th Sing no more ditties, sing no moe, Of dumps so dull and heavy! The fraud of men was ever so, Since summer first was leavy. For, hearme, Hero: wooing, wedding, and repenting is as a Scotch jig, a measure, and a cinque-pace: the first suit is hot and hastylike a Scotch jig--and full as fantastical; the wedding, mannerly modest, as a measure, full of state and ancientry; and t --My nobler friends,I crave their pardons:For the mutable, rank-scented many, let themRegard me as I do not flatter, andTherein behold themselves: I say again,In soothing them we nourish 'gainst our senateThe cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,WhicSo kind a father!Be my horses ready? Fool. Thou canst tell why one's nose stands i' th' middle on's face? Lear. When shall I come to th' top of that same hill? Edg. This is the night That either makes me or fordoes me quite. And for these great affairs do ask some charge, Towards our assistance we do seize to us The plate, coin, revenues, and moveables, Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd. Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?BOTH TRIBUNES. Good Brabantio, Take up this mangled matter at the best: Men do their broken weapons rather use Than their bare hands. And still he smil'd and talk'd:And as the Souldiers bare dead bodies by,He call'd them vntaught Knaues, Vnmannerly,To bring a slouenly vnhandsome CoarseBetwixt the Winde, and his Nobility. Why, this, Volumnius: The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me Two several times by night; at Sardis once, And this last night here in Philippi fields. Reply not to me, with a Foole-borne Iest,Presume not, that I am the thing I was,For heauen doth know (so shall the world perceiue)That I haue turn'd away my former Selfe,So will I those that kept me Companie. Now shame upon you, whe'er she does or no! His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames, Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes, Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee; Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be brib'd To do him  Come, let's heare Iacke: What tricke hastthou now? Fal. Enter Othello, Desdemona, Cassio, and Attendants. O, matter and impertinency mix'd! Reason, in madness! Lear. Enter Hotspurre, Worcester, Lord Mortimer, Owen Glendower. If you dare fight today, come to the field; If not, when you have stomachs. My master is of churlish disposition, And little recks to find the way to heaven By doing deeds of hospitality. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to the king. Why, how now, Count? Wherefore are you sad? Claud. Those that do teach young babes Do it with gentle means and easy tasks. Come, let's do so, For every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance. O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some ofthem had in them more feet than the verses would bear. Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief A passion most unsuiting such a man Cassio came hither. Why, York, what wilt thou do? Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own? Have we more sons? or are we like to have? Is not my teeming date drunk up with time? And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age And rob me of a happy mother's name? Is he no Caesar, now be still; I kill'd not thee with half so good a will. Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son I would appeach him. God keep your ladyship still in that mind! So somegentleman or other shall scape a predestinate scratch'd face. Who cover faults, at last shame them derides. My heart will sigh when I miscall it so, Which finds it an enforced pilgrimage. Whilst I was big in clamour, came there a man, Who, having seen me in my worst estate, Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding Who 'twas that so endur'd, with his strong arms He fastened on my neck, and bellowed out As he'd burst heaven; threw hi These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no goodto us. My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight, And brought with armed men back to Messina. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i?the world. The main descry Stands on the hourly thought. But here's a villain that would face me down He met me on the mart, and that I beat him, And charg'd him with a thousand marks in gold, And that I did deny my wife and house. Meantime let this defend my loyalty By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie BOLINGBROKE. Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding: To one, his lands withheld; and to the other, A land itself at large, a potent dukedom. O, tremble, for you hear the lion roar! KING JOHN. Forever, and forever, farewell, Cassius! If we do meet again, why, we shall smile; If not, why then this parting was well made. I will discharge thee ere I go from thee; Bear me forthwith unto his creditor, And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it. --Filthy hags!Why do you show me this?--A fourth!--Start, eyes!What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?Another yet!--A seventh!--I'll see no more:--And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glassWhich shows me many more; and some I seeThat twoIn the street I met him, And in his company that gentleman. Therefore thy threat'ning colours now wind up And tame the savage spirit of wild war, That, like a lion fostered up at hand, It may lie gently at the foot of peace And be no further harmful than in show. I told him what I thought, and told no more Than what he found himself was apt and true. Did your letters pierce the Queen to any demonstration of grief? Gent. They well deserve to have That know the strong'st and surest way to get. You are sent for to the senate:A fearful army, led by Caius MarciusAssociated with Aufidius, ragesUpon our territories; and have alreadyO'erborne their way, consum'd with fire and tookWhat lay before them. He is the half part of a blessed man, Left to be finished by such as she; And she a fair divided excellence, Whose fulness of perfection lies in him. Why, who cries out on pride That can therein tax any private party? Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea, Till that the wearer's very means do ebb? What woman in the city do I name When that I say the city-woman bears The cost of princes on unworthy sh Send out more horses, skirr the country round;Hang those that talk of fear. Answer my life my judgment, Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least, Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound Reverbs no hollowness. His noble hand Did win what he did spend, and spent not that Which his triumphant father's hand had won. If I but fist him once: if he come but within myVice Host. Lords, I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury; It is our safety, and we must embrace This gentle offer of the perilous time. Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too hard for him; Ihave heard him say so himself. But what of Cicero? Shall we sound him? I think he will stand very strong with us. Was it not yesterday we spoke together?FIRST MURDERER. Seek out King John, and fall before his feet; For if the French be lords of this loud day, He means to recompense the pains you take By cutting off your heads. Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed I' th' sway of your own will. What is your will that I shall do withthis?ANGELO. A merrie Song, come: it growes late,wee will to Bed. 'Tis pitiful, but yet Iago knows That she with Cassio hath the act of shame A thousand times committed. This Apoplexie will (certaine) be his end King. Exeunt Desdemona andEmilia. Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine, Poictiers, and Anjou, these five provinces, With her to thee; and this addition more, Full thirty thousand marks of English coin. O, that the slave had forty thousand lives! One is too poor, too weak for my revenge. A Friend i'th Court, is better then apenny in purse. If her breath were as terrible as herterminations, there were no living near her; she would infect to the North Star. As we were sharing, some sixe or seuen fresh menset vpon vs Falst. I know a wench of excellent discourse, Pretty and witty; wild, and yet, too, gentle; There will we dine. Pay the Musitians, Sirrha: farewell Hostesse,farewell Dol. Herein I see thou lov'st me not with the full weightthat I love thee. Hisperia, the Princess' gentlewoman, Confesses that she secretly o'erheard Your daughter and her cousin much commend The parts and graces of the wrestler That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles; And she believes, wherever they are gone, That youth i He is indeed, and liuing to kill thee:I prethee lend me thy sword Falst. God for his mercy! what a tide of woes Comes rushing on this woeful land at once! I know not what to do. Be patient; for I will not let him stir Till I have us'd the approved means I have, With wholesome syrups, drugs, and holy prayers, To make of him a formal man again. 'Zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not serveGod, if the devil bid you. And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done! Answer, clerk. Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief, Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief. My hour is almost come, When I to sulph?ous and tormenting flames Must render up myself. Five tribunes, to defend their vulgar wisdoms,Of their own choice: one's Junius Brutus,Sicinius Velutus, and I know not. In us that are our own great deputy And bear possession of our person here, Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you. Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio? DESDEMONA. He set up his bills here in Messina and challeng'd Cupidat the flight, and my uncle's fool, reading the challenge, subscrib'd for Cupid and challeng'd him at the burbolt. Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! Beware Macduff;Beware the Thane of Fife. Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior, Your niece regards me with an eye of favour. Enter Octavius, Antony, Messala, Lucilius, and the Army. Do not presume too much upon my love; I may do that I shall be sorry for. You have seen cruel proof of this man's strength; if you saw yourself with your eyes, or knew yourself with your judgment,the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equal enterprise. Bardolph, am I not falne away vilely, since thislast action? doe I not bate? doe I not dwindle? Whymy skinne hangs about me like an olde Ladies looseGowne: I am withered like an olde Apple Iohn. No; but to the gate, and there will the devil meet melike an old cuckold with horns on his head, and say 'Get you toheaven, Beatrice, get you to heaven. Shall I tell you, Cousin,He holds your temper in a high respect,And curbes himselfe, euen of his naturall scope,When you doe crosse his humor: 'faith he does. I prithee tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace. Thou fond mad woman, Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy? A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament, And interchangeably set down their hands To kill the King at Oxford. Upon our first, he sent out to suppress His nephew? levies; which to him appear? To be a preparation ?ainst the Polack; But, better look? into, he truly found It was against your highness; whereat griev?,?That so his sickness, age, and impotence Was fal It may be these apparent prodigies, The unaccustom'd terror of this night, And the persuasion of his augurers May hold him from the Capitol today. Re-enter ORLANDO with ADAM DUKE SENIOR. No abuse (Hal:)none (Ned) none; no Boyes, none Prince. Be then desir'd By her that else will take the thing she begs A little to disquantity your train, And the remainder that shall still depend To be such men as may besort your age, Which know themselves, and you. Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart That's sorry yet for thee. Hang ye gorbellied knaues, are you vndone? Noye Fat Chuffes, I would your store were heere. Come, you spiritsThat tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here;And fill me, from the crown to the toe, top-fullOf direst cruelty! make thick my blood,Stop up the access and passage to remorse,That no compunctious visitings of natureShake my fell purpose,  So, let the ports be guarded: keep your dutiesAs I have set them down. He is at hand, and Pindarus is come To do you salutation from his master. Worthy Marcius,Had we no other quarrel else to Rome, but thatThou art thence banish'd, we would muster allFrom twelve to seventy; and, pouring warInto the bowels of ungrateful Rome,Like a bold flood o'erbear. Thou'rt mad to say it:Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,Would have inform'd for preparation. The King must take it ill That he, so slightly valued in his messenger, Should have him thus restrain'd. I shall do my friends no wrong, for I havenone to lament me; the world no injury, for in it I have nothing;only in the world I fill up a place, which may be better suppliedwhen I have made it empty. with drum and colours, Menteith, Caithness, Angus,Lennox, and Soldiers. For 'tis a sore upon usYou cannot tent yourself; be gone, beseech you. A heavier task could not have been impos'd Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable; Yet, that the world may witness that my end Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence, I'll utter what my sorrow gives me leave. But that your royal pleasure must be done, This act is as an ancient tale new told And, in the last repeating, troublesome, Being urged at a time unseasonable. Please you Lords,In sight of both our Battailes, wee may meeteAt either end in peace: which Heauen so frame,Or to the place of difference call the Swords,Which must decide it Bish. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false accusation; and briefly, I desire nothing but the reward of a villain. How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now? NORTHUMBERLAND. Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise, Wherein we must have use of your advice. Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour, There shall he sit till noon. Then did we two, seton you foure, and with a word, outfac'd you from yourprize, and haue it: yea, and can shew it you in the House. I' faith, I thank him, he hath bid me to a calve's headand a capon, the which if I do not carve most curiously, say my knife's naught. But that you do not love me. An earnest conjuration from the king,?As England was his faithful tributary; As love between them like the palm might flourish; As peace should still her wheaten garland wear And stand a comma ?ween their amities; And many such-like as? of great charge, If I get down and do not break my limbs, I'll find a thousand shifts to get away. Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain; For they breathe truth that breathe their words -in pain. No, my good lord; he hath forsook the court, Broken his staff of office, and dispers'd The household of the King. Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded Ere you had spoke so far. Enter Cornwall, Regan, Goneril, [Edmund the] Bastard, andServants. I pray you see him presently discharg'd, For he is bound to sea, and stays but for it. And thinke, how such an apprehensionMay turne the tyde of fearefull Faction,And breede a kinde of question in our cause:For well you know, wee of the offring side,Must keepe aloofe from strict arbitrement,And stop all sight-holes, euery loope, from whencThen, good my mother, let me know my father Some proper man, I hope. No, sir, 'twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor withbegging. My royal lord,You do not give the cheer: the feast is soldThat is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a-making,'Tis given with welcome; to feed were best at home;From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;Meeting were bare without it. I do love Cassio well, and would do much To cure him of this evilBut, hark! What noise? A cry within, "Help,help!" Re-enter Cassio, driving in Roderigo. Sweet-heart, me thinkes now you are in an excellentgood temperalitie: your Pulsidge beates as extraordinarily,as heart would desire; and your Colour(I warrant you) is as red as any Rose: But you hauedrunke too much Canaries, and that's a maruellous sear What trade, thou knave? Thou naughty knave, whattrade? SECOND COMMONER. [To AUMERLE] We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not, To look so poorly and to speak so fair? Shall we call back Northumberland, and send Defiance to the traitor, and so die? AUMERLE. Why, now, blow and, swell billow, and swim bark! The storm is up, and all is on the hazard. I would not have you, lord, forget yourself, Nor tempt the danger of my true defence; Lest I, by marking of your rage, forget Your worth, your greatness and nobility. Once more to-day well met, distemper'd lords! The King by me requests your presence straight. Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of DonJohn for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully. Which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young. Enter Ross and WILLOUGHBY NORTHUMBERLAND. Mine ears against your suits are stronger thanYour gates against my force. Thou art a lady: If only to go warm were gorgeous, Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st Which scarcely keeps thee warm. In honest plainness thou hast heard me say My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness, Being full of supper and distempering draughts, Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come To start my quiet. Nay but harke you Francis, for the Sugar thougauest me, 'twas a penyworth, was't not? Fran. There is no composition in these news That gives them credit. Filth, thou liest! EMILIA. Laertes, was your father dear to you? Or are you like the painting of a sorrow, A face without a heart? Laer. Come, let vs take a muster speedily:Doomesday is neere; dye all, dye merrily Dow. What thinke you (Sir Iohn) a good limb'd fellow:yong, strong, and of good friends Fal. The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and Sweetheart, see, they bark at me. I never knew A Florentine more kind and honest. Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear. I think it freely; and betimes in the morning I willbeseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me. What's the matter,That in these several places of the cityYou cry against the noble senate, who,Under the gods, keep you in awe, which elseWould feed on one another?--What's their seeking?MENENIUS. Come, Ile be friends with theeIacke: Thou art going to the Warres, and whether Ishall euer see thee againe, or no, there is no bodycares. The Land is burning, Percie stands on hye,And either they, or we must lower lye Fal. She's but the sign and semblance of her honour. I will watch to-night; Perchance ?will walk again. Alack, and what shall good old York there see But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls, Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones? And what hear there for welcome but my groans? Therefore commend me; let him not come there To seek out sorrow that dwells every Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing; but I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully byus. I have doneAs you have done,--that's what I can; inducedAs you have been,--that's for my country:He that has but effected his good willHath overta'en mine act. This Earth that beares the dead,Beares not aliue so stout a Gentleman. Even to the next willow, about your own business, County. Enter CORIN and SILVIUS ROSALIND. Of all the days i?the year, I came to? that day that our last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras. This fellow's of exceeding honesty, And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit, Of human dealings. Exit an attendant NORTHUMBERLAND. Gloucester, I live To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the King, And to revenge thine eyes. As many and as well-born bloods as those BASTARD. Do this suddenly; And let not search and inquisition quail To bring again these foolish runaways. As good a man as he sir, who ere I am: doe yeeyeelde sir, or shall I sweate for you? if I doe sweate, theyare the drops of thy Louers, and they weep for thy death,therefore rowze vp Feare and Trembling, and do obseruanceto my mercy Col. I am possess'd with an adulterate blot; My blood is mingled with the crime of lust; For if we two be one, and thou play false, I do digest the poison of thy flesh, Being strumpeted by thy contagion. There is a willow grows aslant a brook, That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream; There with fantastic garlands did she come Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples, That liberal shepherds give a grosser name, But our cold maids do dea Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords. He is my prisoner; if I let him go, The debt he owes will be requir'd of me. The Thane of Cawdor lives: why do you dress meIn borrow'd robes?ANGUS. If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony May safely come to him and be resolved How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death, Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead So well as Brutus living, but will follow The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus Thorough the  O, what love I note In the fair multitude of those her hairs! Where but by a chance a silver drop hath fall'n, Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends Do glue themselves in sociable grief, Like true, inseparable, faithful loves, Sticking together in Then sigh not so, But let them go, And be you blithe and bonny, Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey nonny, nonny. Carried to Colme-kill,The sacred storehouse of his predecessors,And guardian of their bones. They are wise and honorable, And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you. 'Yet did I not, as some my equals did, Demand of him, nor being desired yielded; Finding myself in honour so forbid, With safest distance I mine honour shielded. Goes into the pulpit. My lord, when at their home I did commend your Highness' letters to them, Ere I was risen from the place that show'd My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post, Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth From Goneril his mistress salutations;  [Within] By my troth, your town is troubled with unruly boys. Thou do'st bely him Percy, thou dost bely him;He neuer did encounter with Glendower:I tell thee, he durst as well haue met the diuell alone,As Owen Glendower for an enemy. I' the city of kites and crows!--What an ass it is!--Then thoudwell'st with daws too? CORIOLANUS. Thine, by yea and no: which is as much as to say, as thouvsest him. Prince Johnis this morning secretly stol'n away. Thou art not vanquish'd, But cozen'd and beguil'd. [They approach the arbour. How many gentlemen have you lost in this action? Mess. Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffersalvation, body and soul. What mean you, sir? For God's sake hold yourhands! Nay, an you will not, sir, I'll take my heels. Here did she fall a tear; here in this place I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace. O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye! The tackle of my heart is crack'd and burnt, And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail Are turned to one thread, one little hair; My heart hath one poor string to stay it by, Which holds but till thy news Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest For Brutus is an honorable man; So are they all, all honorable men Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral. Near Birnam woodShall we well meet them; that way are they coming. Thou shalt find That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think I have cast off for ever; thou shalt, I warrant thee. Masters, I charge you in the Prince's name accuse these men. Philip of France, on peril of a curse, Let go the hand of that arch-heretic, And raise the power of France upon his head, Unless he do submit himself to Rome. Enter Poet, followed by Lucilius, Titinius, and Lucius. Exeunt Citizens with the body. Go, vanish into air, away! ExeuntMusicians. What, art thou stiff? stand'st out?TITUS LARTIUS. If she will stir hither, I shallseem to notify unto her. Exeunt Duke, Senators, andOfficers. If the gentlewoman that attends the general's wifebe stirring, tell her there's one Cassio entreats her a littlefavor of speech. But soft I pray you; did King Richard thenProclaime my brother Mortimer,Heyre to the Crowne? Nor. Knock,knock, knock! Who's there? Faith, here's an English tailor comehither, for stealing out of a French hose: come in, tailor; hereyou may roast your goose. I will depart inquiet, And in despite of mirth mean to be merry. Now is that noble vessel full of grief, That it runs over even at his eyes. Go beare this Letter to Lord Iohn of LancasterTo my Brother Iohn. My father hath set guard to take my brother; And I have one thing, of a queasy question, Which I must act. To me, and to the state of my great grief, Let kings assemble; for my grief's so great That no supporter but the huge firm earth Can hold it up. Mass, and my elbow itch'd! I thought there would a scab follow. Many a man would take you at your word, And go indeed, having so good a mean. I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money, To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for. General, Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony; Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine. Let it be seene to morrow in the Battell,Which of vs feares Dowg. I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly; a quarrel, but nothing wherefore. Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,Though in your state of honor I am perfect. No, Ile none of it: I prythee keep that for theHangman, for I know thou worshipst S[aint]. THE TRAGEDY OF CORIOLANUSby William ShakespearePERSONS REPRESENTED. O my good Lord, why are you thus alone?For what offence haue I this fortnight binA banish'd woman from my Harries bed?Tell me (sweet Lord) what is't that takes from theeThy stomacke, pleasure, and thy golden sleepe?Why dost thou bend thine eyes vpon the Upon her head a platted hive of straw, Which fortified her visage from the sun, Whereon the thought might think sometime it saw The carcase of a beauty spent and done. I sometime lay here in CorioliAt a poor man's house; he used me kindly:He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;But then Aufidius was within my view,And wrath o'erwhelmed my pity: I request youTo give my poor host freedom. Him I accuseThe city ports by this hath enter'd andIntends t' appear before the people, hopingTo purge himself with words: despatch. Danger knows full well That Caesar is more dangerous than he. My care is loss of care, by old care done; Your care is gain of care, by new care won. Let us go in together; And still your fingers on your lips, I pray. That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love. Enter, with drum and colours, Malcolm, oldSiward, Ross, Lennox, Angus, Caithness, Menteith, and Soldiers. Hark you far off!There is Aufidius; list what work he makesAmongst your cloven army. Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth--it catches. [to Hero] Well, niece, I trust you will be rul'd by your father. If you meet the Prince in the night, you may stay him. O, I am scalded with my violent motion And spleen of speed to see your Majesty! KING JOHN. Now a Purse of Gold most resolutelysnatch'd on Monday night, and most dissolutelyspent on Tuesday Morning; got with swearing, Lay by:and spent with crying, Bring in: now, in as low an ebbeas the foot of the Ladder, and by and by in as high a flowas the  The forestEnter ORLANDO and OLIVER ORLANDO. --Noble Banquo,That hast no less deserv'd, nor must be knownNo less to have done so,let me infold theeAnd hold thee to my heart. Look to that, devil, lest that France repent And by disjoining hands hell lose a soul. He hath not money for these Irish wars, His burdenous taxations notwithstanding, But by the robbing of the banish'd Duke. Unless the fear of death doth make me dote, I see my son Antipholus, and Dromio. This apish and unmannerly approach, This harness'd masque and unadvised revel This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops, The King doth smile at; and is well prepar'd To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms, From out the circle of his territories. My Vnkle is return'd,Deliuer vp my Lord of Westmerland. Never to speak of this that you have seen, Swear by my sword. Enter KING RICHARD and Guard But soft, but see, or rather do not see, My fair rose wither. Spake he so doubtfully thou could'st not feel hismeaning?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees,Are bound to pray for you both. I am not furnish'd with the present money; Besides, I have some business in the town. The forestEnter ROSALIND and CELIA ROSALIND. Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land Wherein thou liest in reputation sick; And thou, too careless patient as thou art, Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure Of those physicians that first wounded thee: A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,  Better thou Hadst not been born than not t' have pleas'd me better. Ourself will mingle with society,And play the humble host. Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls Since presently your souls must part your bodies With too much urging your pernicious lives, For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood From off my hands, here in the view of men I will unfold some causes o I cannot well perceiue how, vnlesse you shouldgiue me your Doublet, and stuffe me out with Straw. I'll give my reasons,More worthier than their voices. Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit, And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit. Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the threshold till mylord return from the wars. Giue me a Cup of Sacketo make mine eyes looke redde, that it may be thought Ihaue wept, for I must speake in passion, and I will doe itin King Cambyses vaine Prin. Your Sonne in Scotland being thus imploy'd,Shall secretly into the bosome creepeOf that same noble Prelate, well belou'd,The Archbishop Hot. Yet am I noble as the adversary I come to cope. Pr'ythee now,Go, and be rul'd; although I know thou had'st ratherFollow thine enemy in a fiery gulfThan flatter him in a bower. I have heard him read many lectures against it; and I thankGod I am not a woman, to be touch'd with so many giddy offences ashe hath generally tax'd their whole sex withal. I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you tosing. I am young; but somethingYou may deserve of him through me; and wisdomTo offer up a weak, poor, innocent lambTo appease an angry god. So I lose noneIn seeking to augment it, but still keepMy bosom franchis'd, and allegiance clear,I shall be counsell'd. What will hap more to-night, safe scape the King! Lurk, lurk. Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach thy foolto lie. Fare thee well; We hold our time too precious to be spent With such a brabbler. I will lay oddes, that ere this yeere expire,We beare our Ciuill Swords, and Natiue fireAs farre as France. They saytoo that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. The Duke and Senators sitting at a table;Officers attending. Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill; My sight was ever thick; regard Titinius, And tell me what thou notest about the field. If you outstay the time, upon mine honour, And in the greatness of my word, you die. Pronounce that sentence, then, on me, my liege; I cannot live out of her company. But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnalstings, our unbitted lusts; whereof I take this, that you call love,to be a sect or scion. Poor Tom hathbeen scar'd out of his good wits. But, orderly to end where I begun,?Our wills and fates do so contrary run That our devices still are overthrown; Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own: So think thou wilt no second husband wed; But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dea Being unprepar'd,Our will became the servant to defect;Which else should free have wrought. So, fare you well; Unless you please to enter in the castle, And there repose you for this night. What soldiers, patch?Death of thy soul! those linen cheeks of thineAre counsellors to fear. It may well be call'd Jove's tree, when it dropsforth such fruit. And yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't. Would the cook were o' my mind! Shall we goprove what's to be done? Bora. There are no tricks in plain and simple faith; But hollow men, like horses hot at hand, Make gallant show and promise of their mettle; But when they should endure the bloody spur, They fall their crests and like deceitful jades Sink in the trial. I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths. To draw apart the body he hath kill?: O?r whom his very madness, like some ore Among a mineral of metals base, Shows itself pure: he weeps for what is done. The knave turns fool that runs away; The fool no knave, perdy. 'If the scorn of your bright eyne Have power to raise such love in mine, Alack, in me what strange effect Would they work in mild aspect! Whiles you chid me, I did love; How then might your prayers move! He that brings this love to the Little knows this Give me your hand; I'll lead you to some biding. Happy is your Grace, That can translate the stubbornness of fortune Into so quiet and so sweet a style. These are portents; but yet I hope, I hope, They do not point on me. He wears his faith but as thefashion of his hat; it ever changes with the next block. How if heeshould counterfeit too, and rise? I am afraid hee wouldproue the better counterfeit: therefore Ile make him sure:yea, and Ile sweare I kill'd him. He said sir, you should procure him better Assurance,then Bardolfe: he wold not take his Bond & yours,he lik'd not the Security Fal. Thither shall it, then; And happily may your sweet self put on The lineal state and glory of the land! To whom, with all submission, on my knee I do bequeath my faithful services And true subjection everlastingly. Is't possible? Confess? Handkerchief?O devil! Falls in atrance. Why this is the olde fashion: you two neuermeete, but you fall to some discord: you are both (ingood troth) as Rheumatike as two drie Tostes, you cannotone beare with anothers Confirmities. You have made good work,You and your apron men; you that stood so much Upon the voice of occupation andThe breath of garlic-eaters!COMINIUS. As certain as I know the sun is fire:Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tideAs the recomforted through the gates. But this is worshipful society, And fits the mounting spirit like myself; For he is but a bastard to the time That doth not smack of observation And so am I, whether I smack or no; And not alone in habit and device, Exterior form, outward accoutrement,  Ifsanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and a supersubtle Venetian be not too hard for my wits and all the tribe ofhell, thou shalt enjoy hertherefore make money. His fault is much, and the good King his master Will check him for't. But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial; wherein if I be foil'd there is but one sham'd that was never gracious; if kill'd, but one dead thatis willing to be so. Alas, what cry isthat? OTHELLO. Mum, mum! He that keeps nor crust nor crum, Weary of all, shall want some. --Now o'er the one half-worldNature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuseThe curtain'd sleep; now witchcraft celebratesPale Hecate's offerings; and wither'd murder,Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace,With My necessaries are embark?: farewell: And, sister, as the winds give benefit And convoy is assistant, do not sleep, But let me hear from you. My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband. This way, my lord;--the castle's gently render'd:The tyrant's people on both sides do fight;The noble thanes do bravely in the war;The day almost itself professes yours,And little is to do. At seventeen years many their fortunes seek, But at fourscore it is too late a week; Yet fortune cannot recompense me better Than to die well and not my master's debtor. Adam's sons are my brethren, and trulyI hold it a sin to match in my kinred. Here have we war for war, and blood for blood, Controlment for controlmentso answer France. I met the Duke yesterday, and had much question withhim. Why, why is this? Think'st thou I'ld make a life of jealousy, To follow still the changes of the moon With fresh suspicions? No! To be once in doubt Is once to be resolved. Here, cousin, On this side my hand, and on that side thine. If!He is their god: he leads them like a thingMade by some other deity than nature,That shapes man better; and they follow him,Against us brats, with no less confidenceThan boys pursuing summer butterflies,Or butchers killing flies. It cannot be; thou dost but say 'tis so; I trust I may not trust thee, for thy word Is but the vain breath of a common man: Believe me I do not believe thee, man; I have a king's oath to the contrary. But I pray you, sir, Are you fast married? Be assured of this, That the magnifico is much beloved, And hath in his effect a voice potential As double as the Duke's. If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in dangerof kibes? Lear. This Dauie serues you for good vses: he is yourSeruingman, and your Husband Shal. Iwas neuer mann'd with an Agot till now: but I will setteyou neyther in Gold, nor Siluer, but in vilde apparell, andsend you backe againe to your Master, for a Iewell. Snare, do me, do me, do me your Offices Fal. How is it that the clouds still hang on you? Ham. Thus do all traitors; If their purgation did consist in words, They are as innocent as grace itself. You are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch. )And I beseech you, let not this reportCome currant for an Accusation,Betwixt my Loue, and your high Maiesty Blunt. Let us come in, that we may bind him fast, And bear him home for his recovery. Do me right, or I will protest your cowardice. Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever,Which shall possess them with the heaviest soundThat ever yet they heard. Consents bewitched, ere he desire, have granted, And dialogued for him what he would say, Asked their own wills, and made their wills obey. My talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice. KING JOHN'S palaceEnter KING JOHN, PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and other LORDS KING JOHN. But who comes here? Enter ORLANDO with his sword drawn ORLANDO. Enter Brutus and Cassius, and a throng of Citizens. You have simply misus'd our sex in your love-prate. When I said I would die a bachelor, I didnot think I should live till I were married. I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners,and suppers, and sleeping hours, excepted. Ay, marry, wast, and he put it by thrice, every timegentler than other, and at every putting by mine honest neighbors shouted. Our present Musters grow vpon the FileTo fiue and twenty thousand men of choice:And our Supplies, liue largely in the hopeOf great Northumberland, whose bosome burnesWith an incensed Fire of Iniuries L. The venom clamours of a jealous woman Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth. Hold Hooke and Line, say I: Downe: downeDogges, downe Fates: haue wee not Hiren here? Host. All the conspirators, save only he, Did that they did in envy of great Caesar; He only, in a general honest thought And common good to all, made one of them. Strumpet, I come! Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted; Thy bed lust-stain'd shall with lust's blood be spotted. To this effect, before you were new-crown'd, We breath'd our counsel; but it pleas'd your Highness To overbear it; and we are all well pleas'd, Since all and every part of what we would Doth make a stand at what your Highness will. [Exeunt Polonius with all the Players but the First. Wondrous! ay, I warrant you, and not without his true purchasing. Within this hour I was his bondman, sir, But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords Now am I Dromio and his man unbound. The food that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be tohim shortly as acerb as the coloquintida. This very day a Syracusian merchant Is apprehended for arrival here; And, not being able to buy out his life, According to the statute of the town, Dies ere the weary sun set in the west. This above all,?o thine own self be true; And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man. Your daughter, if you have not given her leave, I say again, hath made a gross revolt, Tying her duty, beauty, wit, and fortunes In an extravagant and wheeling stranger Of here and everywhere. And vnbound the rest, and then come in theother Prince. Hie you to horse: adieu,Till you return at night. If guilty dread have left thee so much strength As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company; for,from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is allmirth. Know then my name is Dowglas,And I do haunt thee in the Battell thus,Because some tell me, that thou art a King Blunt. O, coward that I am, to live so long, To see my best friend ta'en before my face! Pindarus descends. At the old place my Lord, in East-cheape Prin. No, in such a case the gods will not be good unto us. O, let no noble eye profane a tear For me, if I be gor'd with Mowbray's spear. His Letters beares his minde, not I his minde Wor. He isa very valiant trencherman; he hath an excellent stomach. Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore. Not of a woman's tenderness to be,Requires nor child nor woman's face to see. Heaven me such uses send, Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend! Exeunt. There is so hot a summer in my bosom That all my bowels crumble up to dust. Bring thou the master to the citadel; He is a good one, and his worthiness Does challenge much respect. If thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb. Who is here so base that would bea bondman? If any, speak, for him have I offended. It were well The general were put in mind of it. Strike vp our Drummes, pursue the scatter'd stray,Heauen, and not wee, haue safely fought to day. Hee came not through the Chamber where weestayd King. Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here? Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear? DUCHESS. Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar? CASSIUS. Enter YORK, attended BOLINGBROKE. Behold how like a maid she blushes here! O, what authority and show of truth Can cunning sin cover itself withal! Comes not that blood as modest evidence To witness simple virtue, Would you not swear, All you that see her, that she were a maid By these  [Benedick advances from the arbour. Pray now, your news?--You have made fair work, I fear me. Here, here comes Master Signior Leonato, and the sextontoo. Know'st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile? SILVIUS. Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars! It is the cause. I weep for joy To stand upon my kingdom once again. 'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good;and yet it is not; it is but so so. I?l be your foil, Laertes; in mine ignorance Your skill shall, like a star in the darkest night, Stick fiery off indeed. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us. By heaven, that should be my handkerchief! BIANCA. O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease! He issooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker runs presently mad. Then away she started To deal with grief alone. What art thou, that usurp?t this time of night, Together with that fair and warlike form In which the ma jesty of buried Denmark Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee, speak! Mar. O Antony, beg not your death of us! Though now we must appear bloody and cruel, As, by our hands and this our present act You see we do, yet see you but our hands And this the bleeding business they have done. Go, masters, get you home; be not dismay'd;These are a side that would be glad to haveThis true which they so seem to fear. I prithee, good Iago, Go to the bay and disembark my coffers. O if I hadhad time to haue made new Liueries, I would haue bestowedthe thousand pound I borrowed of you. Faith, for their pouertie, I know not where theyhad that; and for their barenesse, I am sure they neuerlearn'd that of me Prince. Some, how brief the life of man Runs his erring pilgrimage, That the streching of a span Buckles in his sum of age; Some, of violated vows 'Twixt the souls of friend and friend; But upon the fairest boughs, Or at every sentence end, Will I Rosalinda wri Enter Edgar, armed, at the third sound, a Trumpet before him. Go we as well as haste will suffer us To this unlook'd-for, unprepared pomp. What noise? FOURTH GENTLEMAN. Thou, Nature, art my goddess; to thy law My services are bound. Exeunt Lear, Burgundy, [Cornwall, Albany, Gloucester, and Attendants]. With him I sent the Queen, My reason all the same; and they are ready To-morrow, or at further space, t' appear Where you shall hold your session. To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit;and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit himwell. Indeed I am not Iohn of Gaunt your Grandfather;but yet no Coward, Hal Prin. My lords, when you shall know,--as in this rage,Provok'd by him, you cannot,--the great dangerWhich this man's life did owe you, you'll rejoice That he is thus cut off. Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for youryears. The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he; His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be. Being that I flow in grief, The smallest twine may lead me. O fool! fool! fool! CASSIO. So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I shouldprove the mother of fools. Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans Mark him and write his speeches in their books, Alas, it cried, "Give me some drink, Titinius," As a sick girl. A common slaveyou know him well by sight Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand Not sensible of fire remain'd unscorch'd. Let me see now To get his place, and to plume up my will In double knaveryHow, how?Let's see After some time, to abuse Othello's ear That he is too familiar with his wife. Come, I will bear thee to someshelter; and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner, if there live anything in this desert. But, good my brother, Do not, as some ungracious pastors do, Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven; Whilst, like a puff ? and reckless libertine, Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads And recks not his own read. Peace ye fat-kidney'd Rascall, what a brawlingdost thou keepe Fal. That's all I seek; And am moreover suitor that I may Produce his body to the marketplace, And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend, Speak in the order of his funeral. I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior; We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight. Yes Sir: the Rascall's drunke: you haue hurthim (Sir) in the shoulder Fal. If that I could for weeping, you should hear,--Nay, and you shall hear some. Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:He only liv'd but till he was a man;The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'dIn the unshrinking station where he fought,But like a man he died. Help! help, ho! help! O lady, speak again! Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak! DESDEMONA. Good night: but go not to mine uncle? bed; Assume a virtue, if you have it not. My liege, I am advised what I say; Neither disturbed with the effect of wine, Nor heady-rash, provok'd with raging ire, Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad. If you are learn'd,Be not as common fools; if you are not,Let them have cushions by you. Make forth, the generals would have some words. I dare pawn down mylife for him that he hath writ this to feel my affection to your honour, and to no other pretence of danger. Cassio hath here been set on in the dark By Roderigo, and fellows that are 'scaped; He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead. There is, sure, another flood toward, and these couplesare coming to the ark. Northumberland, say thus the King returns: His noble cousin is right welcome hither; And all the number of his fair demands Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction. Oh, while you liue, tell truth, and shame the Deuill Mort. Our discontented counties do revolt; Our people quarrel with obedience, Swearing allegiance and the love of soul To stranger blood, to foreign royalty. I will not yield,To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,And to be baited with the rabble's curse. Let her alone, lady; as she is now, she will but disease ourbetter mirth. For corn at their own rates; whereof they sayThe city is well stor'd. Imbowell'd? If thou imbowell mee to day, Ilegiue you leaue to powder me, and eat me too to morow. Peace be with Burgundy! Since that respects of fortune are his love, I shall not be his wife. ExeuntEXECUTIONERS Young lad, come forth; I have to say with you. She dying gave it me, And bid me, when my fate would have me wive, To give it her. What name, fair lady? DESDEMONA. And did they bid you tell her of it, madam? Hero. Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day See Brutus at his house. This is your charge: you shallcomprehend all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's name. For the which she wept heartily and said she cared not. Marry, there is another Indictment vpon thee,for suffering flesh to bee eaten in thy house, contrary tothe Law, for the which I thinke thou wilt howle Host. Giue you a reason on compulsion?If Reasons were as plentie as Black-berries, I wouldgiue no man a Reason vpon compulsion, I Prin. There? a letter for you, sir,?t comes from the ambassador that was bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is. From Enemies, Heauen keepe your Maiestie:And when they stand against you, may they fall,As those that I am come to tell you of. Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge? BASTARD. He presently, as Greatnesse knowes it selfe,Step me a little higher then his VowMade to my Father, while his blood was poore,Vpon the naked shore at Rauenspurgh:And now (forsooth) takes on him to reformeSome certaine Edicts, and some strait Decrees,That So by a roaring tempest on the flood A whole armado of convicted sail Is scattered and disjoin'd from fellowship. The noble Duke hath sworn his coming is But for his own; and for the right of that We all have strongly sworn to give him aid; And let him never see joy that breaks that oath! YORK. Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living that isan old man and no honester than I. What if this cursed hand Were thicker than itself with brother? blood,?Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy But to confront the visage of offence? And what? in prayer but this twofold force,?To be  Be gone;Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;One time will owe another. Cut me to pieces, Volsces; men and lads,Stain all your edges on me. For let the gods so speed me as I love The name of honor more than I fear death. Harry to Harry, shall not Horse to HorseMeete, and ne're part, till one drop downe a Coarse?Oh, that Glendower were come Ver. Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just sevennight; and a time too brief too, to have all thingsanswer my mind. Come, pricke me Bulcalfetill he roare againe Bul. By how much unexpected, by so much We must awake endeavour for defence, For courage mounteth with occasion. Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers, All levied in my name, have in my name Took their discharge. The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of anightingale. Tomorrow, if you please to speak with me, I will come home to you, or, if you will, Come home to me and I will wait for you. [Exit JAQUES] Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been all this while? You a lover! An you serve mesuch another trick, never come in my sight more. Make way, unruly woman! Exit DUCHESS. Well, I will be acquainted withhim, if I returne: and it shall goe hard, but I will makehim a Philosophers two Stones to me. As I returne, I will fetch offthese Iustices: I doe see the bottome of Iustice Shallow. 'Tis once, thou lovest, And I will fit thee with the remedy. 37 Ay, marry, is?; But to my mind,?hough I am native here, And to the manner born,?t is a custom More honour? in the breach than the observance. No, by my Soule: I neuer in my lifeDid heare a Challenge vrg'd more modestly,Vnlesse a Brother should a Brother dareTo gentle exercise, and proofe of Armes. O, we are vndone, both we and ours for euer Fal. Marry (if thou wer't an honest man) thy selfe, &the mony too. Yet one word moregrief boundeth where it falls, Not with the empty hollowness, but weight. I never came within these abbey walls, Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me; I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven! And this is false you burden me withal. Do not believe That, from the sense of all civility, I thus would play and trifle with your reverence. Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true In this appeal as thou art an unjust; And that thou art so, there I throw my gage, To prove it on thee to the extremest point Of mortal breathing. Who is his companion now? He hath every month a new sworn brother. Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you Against the general enemy Ottoman. Be it so:Heere is return'd my Lord of Westmerland. He has kill'd me, mother:Run away, I pray you![Dies. Perchance the Cardinal cannot make your peace; Or, if he do, let it at least be said They saw we had a purpose of defence. Why, now I see there's mettle in thee; and even from this instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before. I cannot tell what you and other men Think of this life, but, for my single self, I had as lief not be as live to be In awe of such a thing as I myself. Yea, but a little Charge will trench him here,And on this North side winne this Cape of Land,And then he runnes straight and euen Hotsp. O, save me, Hubert, save me! My eyes are out Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men. How dost, my boy? Art cold? I am cold myself. Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speakmore That speaks thy words again to do thee harm! WILLOUGHBY. He isnow as valiant as Hercules that only tells a lie,and swears it. I strong o'er them, and you o'er me being strong, Must for your victory us all congest, As compound love to physic your cold breast. None that I know will be, much that I fear maychance. O, let him pass! He hates him That would upon the rack of this tough world Stretch him out longer. I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain, Some busy and insinuating rogue, Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office, Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else. I rather of his absence make this vse:It lends a Lustre, and more great Opinion,A larger Dare to your great Enterprize,Then if the Earle were here: for men must thinke,If we without his helpe, can make a HeadTo push against the Kingdome; with his helpe,WThen, with your will, go on; We'll along ourselves and meet them at Philippi. You would all this time have prov'd there is no time for all things. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation. How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it, That thou art then estranged from thyself? Thyself I call it, being strange to me, That, undividable, incorporate, Am better than thy dear self's better part. Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences. To mourn a mischief that is past and gone Is the next way to draw new mischief on. To be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune,but to write and read comes by nature. Do you see this? Look on her! look! her lips! Look there, look there! He dies. The violence of either grief or joy Their own enactures with themselves destroy: Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament; Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident. Therefore devise with me how we may fly, Whither to go, and what to bear with us; And do not seek to take your charge upon you, To bear your griefs yourself, and leave me out; For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale, Say what thou canst, I'll go al If it prove so, then loving goes by haps; Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps. Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds. But shall it be, that you that set the CrowneVpon the head of this forgetfull man,And for his sake, wore the detested blotOf murtherous subornation? Shall it be,That you a world of curses vndergoe,Being the Agents, or base second meanes,The Cords, the LaThe Thane of Fife had a wife; where is she now?--What,will these hands ne'er be clean? No more o' that, my lord, nomore o' that: you mar all with this starting. I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal, And from Pope Innocent the legate here, Do in his name religiously demand Why thou against the Church, our holy mother, So wilfully dost spurn; and force perforce Keep Stephen Langton, chosen Archbishop Of Canterbury, There hath beene a man or two (lately) kill'd abouther Dol. Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle? ANTONY. Antony, The posture of your blows are yet unknown; But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees, And leave them honeyless. --Yet give us our despatch:I am hush'd until our city be afire,And then I'll speak a little. Thou wilt set me a weeping, if thou say'st so:proue that euer I dresse my selfe handsome, till thy returne:well, hearken the end Fal. Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Canst y deny it? Did not goodwife Keechthe Butchers wife come in then, and cal me gossip Quickly?comming in to borrow a messe of Vinegar: telling vs,she had a good dish of Prawnes: whereby y didst desire toeat some: whereby I told thee they were ill for Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your worship's presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in Messina. If you see this in the mapof my microcosm, follows it that I am known well enough too? Whatharm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this character,if I be known well enough too?BRUTUS. The forestEnter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY; JAQUES behind TOUCHSTONE. Live Roderigo, He calls me to a restitution large Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him, As gifts to Desdemona; It must not be. A rascally Slaue, I will tosse the Rogue in a Blanket Dol. Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman; I never thought him worse. Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave My heart into my mouth. I know my uncle York Hath power enough to serve our turn. There was more foolery yet, if could remember it. Come now, keep thine oath; Now be a freeman, and with this good sword, That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom. Soon may I hear and see him! Exeunt. Honest Gentleman,I know not your breeding Pist. He took my father grossly, full of bread; With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May; And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven? But in our circumstance and course of thought, ?is heavy with him: and am I, then, reveng?, To take him in the p These couchings and these lowly courtesies Might fire the blood of ordinary men And turn preordinance and first decree Into the law of children. Out, insolent! Thy bastard shall be king, That thou mayst be a queen and check the world! CONSTANCE. He that sweetest rose will find Must find love's prick and Rosalinde. Give me an egg, nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns. You and you no cross shall part; You and you are heart in heart; You to his love must accord, Or have a woman to your lord; You and you are sure together, As the winter to foul weather. 'Twas he inform'd against him, And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment Might have the freer course. Nay, he reserv'd a blanket, else we had been all sham'd. Avaunt! and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;Thou hast no speculation in those eyesWhich thou dost glare with!LADY MACBETH. I cannot blame him: At my Natiuitie,The front of Heauen was full of fierie shapes,Of burning Cressets: and at my Birth,The frame and foundation of the EarthShak'd like a Coward Hotsp. Stay yet, Lord Salisbury, I'll go with thee And find th' inheritance of this poor child, His little kingdom of a forced grave. Sir Iohn, you loyter heere too long being youare to take Souldiers vp, in Countries as you go Fal. Thou better know'st The offices of nature, bond of childhood, Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude. Sit, worthy friends:--my lord is often thus,And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat;The fit is momentary; upon a thoughtHe will again be well: if much you note him,You shall offend him, and extend his passion:Feed, and regard him not. These deeds must not be thoughtAfter these ways; so, it will make us mad. If't be not for some purpose of import, Give't me again. 'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable, That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things, Who shut their coward gates on atomies, Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers! Now I do frown on thee with all my heart; And if mine eyes can wound, now l Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice? OTHELLO. I do embrace your offer; and dispose For henceforth of poor Claudio. Is not the King's name twenty thousand names? Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes At thy great glory. My life I never held but as a pawn To wage against thine enemies; nor fear to lose it, Thy safety being the motive. Away you Rogue, dost thou heare them call?Heere they both call him, the Drawer stands amazed, not knowingwhich wayto go. How now! who has put in? SECOND GENTLEMAN. He shewes in this, he loueshis owne Barne better then he loues our house. Thou art my Sonne: I haue partly thy Mothers Word,partly my Opinion; but chiefely, a villanous tricke ofthine Eye, and a foolish hanging of thy nether Lippe, thatdoth warrant me. SONG [All together here] Who doth ambition shun, And loves to live i' th' sun, Seeking the food he eats, And pleas'd with what he gets, Come hither, come hither, come hither. Well, bear you well in this new spring of time, Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime. Most mighty Duke, vouchsafe me speak a word: Haply I see a friend will save my life And pay the sum that may deliver me. To thee, it shall descend with better Quiet,Better Opinion, better Confirmation:For all the soyle of the Atchieuement goesWith me, into the Earth. To fright you thus, methinks, I am too savage;To do worse to you were fell cruelty,Which is too nigh your person. Be happy,lady; for you are like an honourable father. There comes an old man and his three sons CELIA. 'Ay,' quoth Jaques 'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens; 'Tis just the fashion. What do you mean by this haunting of me? BIANCA. 60 Away, I do beseech you, both away I?l board him presently:?, give me leave. O Hero! what a Hero hadst thou been If half thy outward graces had been plac'd About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart! But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! Farewell, Thou pure impiety and impious purity! For thee I'll lock up all the gates of O that Sir Iohn were come, hee would makethis a bloody day to some body. Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain! Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire are my daughters. The king hath happily receiv'd, Macbeth,The news of thy success: and when he readsThy personal venture in the rebels' fight,His wonders and his praises do contendWhich should be thine or his: silenc'd with that,In viewing o'er the rest o' the self-same dAnd for Mark Antony, think not of him, For he can do no more than Caesar's arm When Caesar's head is off. Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in him; he had,sir, a kind of face, methought,--I cannot tell how to term it. Your brotherno, no brother; yet the son Yet not the son; I will not call him son Of him I was about to call his father Hath heard your praises; and this night he means To burn the lodging where you use to lie, And you within it. 'Faith, I ranne when I saw others runne Prin. How now! Back, friends; shepherd, go off a little; gowith him, sirrah. Why, how now, cousin? Wherefore sink you down? John. 'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarcemakes honest; and those that she makes honest she makes very ill-favouredly. Well conceited Dauy: about thy Businesse,Dauy Dauy. My lord, I rescued her; Her Highness is in safety, fear you not; But on, my liege, for very little pains Will bring this labour to an happy end. But now will canker sorrow eat my bud And chase the native beauty from his cheek, And he will look as hollow as a ghost, As dim and meagre as an ague's fit; And so he'll die; and, rising so again, When I shall meet him in the court of heaven I shall not They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in holiday foolery; if we walk not in the trodden paths, our verypetticoats will catch them. Speake lower (Princes) for the King recouers Glo. If by strong hand you offer to break in Now in the stirring passage of the day, A vulgar comment will be made of it, And that supposed by the common rout Against your yet ungalled estimation That may with foul intrusion enter in And dwell upon your grav But if all aim but this be levell'd false, The supposition of the lady's death Will quench the wonder of her infamy. Frances of Assisi?none?Stan?Price?Stella?McCartney?Stephanie?Powers?Steve?Bellamy?Steve?Brill?Steve?Vai?Steve?Morse?Steve?Martin?Steve?Berra?Steve?Jobs?Apple Computers?vegetarian?Summer?Phoenix?Sunny?Harris?Surya?Bonaly?Susan B. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter? 2 Clown. I doe not care: Ile giue thrice so much LandTo any well-deseruing friend;But in the way of Bargaine, marke ye me,Ile cauill on the ninth part of a hayre. Not O sweet Oliver, O brave Oliver, Leave me not behind thee. There is no neede of any such redresse:Or if there were, it not belongs to you Mow. Do you wish, then, that the gods had made me poetical? TOUCHSTONE. 'Spare mygrey beard,' you wagtail? Corn. And heaven defend your good souls, that you think I will your serious and great business scant For she is with me. Well,Ile repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some liking:I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I shall haue nostrength to repent. His Lordship is walk'd forth into the Orchard,Please it your Honor, knocke but at the Gate,And he himselfe will answer. What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure Their going hence, even as their coming hither; Ripeness is all. This toil of ours should be a work of thine; But thou from loving England art so far That thou hast under-wrought his lawful king, Cut off the sequence of posterity, Outfaced infant state, and done a rape Upon the maiden virtue of the crown. Would he were fatter! But I fear him not, Yet if my name were liable to fear, I do not know the man I should avoid So soon as that spare Cassius. Now blessed be the hour, by night or day, When I was got, Sir Robert was away! ELINOR. Montano and myself being in speech, There comes a fellow crying out for help, And Cassio following him with determined sword, To execute upon him. On safeguard he came to me; and did curseAgainst the Volsces, for they had so vilelyYielded the town; he is retir'd to Antium. Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you To leave this place. O happy vantage of a kneeling knee! Yet am I sick for fear. I cannot blame him: was he not proclaim'dBy Richard that dead is, the next of blood? Nor. Thus has he,?nd many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes on,?only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and through the most fanned and winnowed opinions; and d Since thus thou wilt appear, Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here. Our spoils we have brought homeDo more than counterpoise a full third partThe charges of the action. To-morrow is the joyful day, Audre'y; to-morrowwill we be married. O Lord, I must laugh! Have at you with a proverb: Shall I set in my staff?LUCE. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly. Come shelter, shelter, I haue remoued FalstafsHorse, and he frets like a gum'd Veluet Prin. [Within] Can you tell for whose sake?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Alas, thrice-gentle Cassio! My advocation is not now in tune; My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor alter'd. Then, gentle brother, get you in again; Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife. Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause Why thou departed'st from thy native home, And for what cause thou cam'st to Ephesus. Darkness and devils! Saddle my horses! Call my train together! Degenerate bastard, I'll not trouble thee; Yet have I left a daughter. At ?loses in the consequence,?at ?riend or so,?and gentleman. If not the face of men, The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse If these be motives weak, break off betimes, And every man hence to his idle bed; So let high-sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery. Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not That when the searching eye of heaven is hid, Behind the globe, that lights the lower world, Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen In murders and in outrage boldly here; But when from under this terrestrial I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:I take my leave at once. Heauen witnesse with me, when I heere came in,And found no course of breath within your Maiestie,How cold it strooke my heart. Flower of warriors,How is't with Titus Lartius?MARCIUS. If Troth, and vpright Innocency fayle me,Ile to the King (my Master) that is dead,And tell him, who hath sent me after him War. [To Kent] O, are you free? Some other time for that. Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high praise, too brown for a fair praise, and too little for a greatpraise. I wasted time, and now doth time waste me; For now hath time made me his numb'ring clock: My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch, Whereto my finger, like a dial's point, Is pointing still, in  O me, the gods!You must not speak of that: you must desire themTo think upon you. [ To PHEBE ] I will marry you if ever I marrywoman, and I'll be married to-morrow. Norway himself, with terrible numbers,Assisted by that most disloyal traitorThe Thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict;Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,Confronted him with self-comparisons,Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm,If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself! I'll not believe't. Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts! Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland, Expedient manage must be made, my liege, Ere further leisure yicld them further means For their advantage and your Highness' loss. Cover thy head, cover thy head; nay, prithee be cover'd. Dishonourable boy! That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword That it shall render vengeance and revenge Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do he In earth as quiet as thy father's skull. If by direct or by collateral hand They find us touch?, we will our kingdom give, Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours, To you in satisfaction; but if not, Be you content to lend your patience to us, And we shall jointly labour with your soul  You are never without your tricks:--you may, you may. But her fair sister, Possess'd with such a gentle sovereign grace, Of such enchanting presence and discourse, Hath almost made me traitor to myself; But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong, I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song. Re-enter YORK, with KING RICHARD, and OFFICERS bearing the regalia KING RICHARD. Once more, the more to aggravate the note, With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat; And wish-so please my sovereign-ere I move, What my tongue speaks, my right drawn sword may prove. We thank you both; yet one but flatters us, As well appeareth by the cause you come; Namely, to appeal each other of high treason. Varro and Claudio! Enter Varro and Claudio. Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee! These words hereafter thy tormentors be! Convey me to my bed, then to my grave. Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which Godmade, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness. But is there any else longs to see this broken musicin his sides? Is there yet another dotes upon rib-breaking?Shall we see this wrestling, cousin? LE BEAU. If I do faine,O let me, in my present wildenesse, dye,And neuer liue, to shew th' incredulous World,The Noble change that I haue purposed. Sirrah, speak, What doth move you to claim your brother's land? BASTARD. No, nor a man that fears you less than he,That's lesser than a little. Tullus Aufidius, is he within your walls?FIRST SENATOR. And you in Hell, as oft as he heares Owen Glendowerspoke of Glend. I was a Coward on Instinct: I shall thinke the better ofmy selfe, and thee, during my life: I, for a valiant Lion,and thou for a true Prince. So he did, my lord:The army marvell'd at it; and, in the last,When he had carried Rome, and that we look'dFor no less spoil than glory,--AUFIDIUS. Or rather then set forward; for 'twill be Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet. --I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss:Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,And all to all. You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady? Claud. Storm and tempest. Were I but now lord of such hot youth As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men, From forth the ranks of many thousand French, O, then how quickly should this arm of mine, Now prisoner to the palsy, cha I haveas much of my father in me as you, albeit I confess your coming before me is nearer to his reverence. If it be that, or any that was hers, It speaks against her with the other proofs. Well, I doubt not butto dye a faire death for all this, if I scape hanging for killingthat Rogue, I haue forsworne his company hourelyany time this two and twenty yeare, & yet I am bewitchtwith the Rogues company. Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits, On purpose shut the doors against his way. --Tyrant, show thy face!If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still. You might have been enough the man you areWith striving less to be so: lesser had beenThe thwartings of your dispositions, ifYou had not show'd them how ye were dispos'd,Ere they lack'd power to cross you. Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipp'd out,when Lady the brach may stand by th' fire and stink. Why prat'st thou to thyself, and answer'st not? Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Well, my lord: If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing, And scape detecting, I will pay the theft. O murtherous coxcomb! What should such a fool Do with so good a wife? OTHELLO. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o?the worst. Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till Ibreak my shins against it. Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know Wherefore they do it. For my Lord Lackbeardthere, he and I shall meet; and till then peace be with him. Gentleman, [Giving him a chain from her neck] Wear this for me; one out of suits with fortune, That could give more, but that her hand lacks means. We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it;She'll close, and be herself; whilst our poor maliceRemains in danger of her former tooth. The sixth age shifts Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon, With spectacles on nose and pouch on side, His youthful hose, well sav'd, a world too wide For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice, Turning again toward childish treble, pipes And whistle To say 'ay' and 'no' to everything I said! 'Ay'and 'no' too was no good divinity. Hal, if thou see me downe in the battell,And bestride me, so; 'tis a point of friendship Prin. My son Came then into my mind, and yet my mind Was then scarce friends with him. Cosin, on Wednesday next, our Councell we will holdAt Windsor, and so informe the Lords:But come your selfe with speed to vs againe,For more is to be saide, and to be done,Then out of anger can be vttered West. Out, strumpet! Weep'st thou for him to my face? DESDEMONA. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night Love not such nights as these. Because you talk of wooing, I will sing, Since many a wooer doth commence his suit To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes, Yet will he swear he loves. Here once again we sit, once again crown'd, And look'd upon, I hope, with cheerful eyes. Whoever gave that counsel, to give forthThe corn o' the storehouse gratis, as 'twas us'dSometime in Greece,--MENENIUS. I'll write it straight; The matter's in my head and in my heart; I will be bitter with him and passing short. No sir Iohn, it is my Cosin Silence: in Commissionwith mee Fal. 'I measure him,' says she, 'by my own spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. How now, my lord! will the king hear this piece of work? Pol. Condition!I would I were a Roman; for I cannot,Being a Volsce, be that I am. Methinks thy voice is alter'd, and thou speak'st In better phrase and matter than thou didst. Look, if my gentle love be not raised up! I'll make thee an example. Let me work; For I can give his humor the true bent, And I will bring him to the Capitol. Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you thatdecerns you nearly. If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius, He should not humor me. As far, my lord, as will fill up the time'Twixt this and supper: go not my horse the better,I must become a borrower of the night,For a dark hour or twain. I know you do not love me; for your sisters Have, as I do remember, done me wrong. I warrant you, as common as the way betweeneS[aint]. Yet I fear him, For in the ingrated love he bears to Caesar BRUTUS. Nay soft I pray ye, I know a trick worth twoof that Gad. No, sir; yet oft,When blows have made me stay, I fled from words. I have almost forgot the taste of fears:The time has been, my senses would have cool'dTo hear a night-shriek; and my fell of hairWould at a dismal treatise rouse and stirAs life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors;Direness, familiar to my slaught'Methought thy very gait did prophesy A royal nobleness. He loves me well, and I have given him reasons; Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him. They meant his night in Sard is to be quarter'd; The greater part, the horse in general, Are come with Cassius. If he be slaine, say so:The Tongue offends not, that reports his death:And he doth sinne that doth belye the dead:Not he, which sayes the dead is not aliue:Yet the first bringer of vnwelcome NewesHath but a loosing Office: and his Tongue,Sounds euer aft What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I dwell?Am I a married man or a bachelor? Then, to answer every mandirectly and briefly, wisely and truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor. Nay; now thou goest from Fortune's office toNature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world, not in the lineamentsof Nature. I'll forbear; And am fallen out with my more headier will, To take the indispos'd and sickly fit For the sound man. He that trusts to you,Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;Where foxes, geese: you are no surer, no,Than is the coal of fire upon the ic,Or hailstone in the sun. Sirra, Falstaffe and the rest of the Theeues, are atthe doore, shall we be merry? Poin. If we do lose this battle, then is this The very last time we shall speak together. By heaven, Hubert, I am almost asham'd To say what good respect I have of thee. He is, and feasts the nobles of the stateAt his house this night. That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch, Is niece to England; look upon the years Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid. I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir Rowlandde Boys. Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee, Whose duty is deceivable and false. The residue of your fortune, Go to my cave and tell me. --My sometime general,I have seen thee stern, and thou hast oft beheldHeart-hard'ning spectacles; tell these sad women'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,As 'tis to laugh at 'em. If that thou be'st a devil, I cannot kill thee. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or140 equivocation will undo us. From that supernal judge that stirs good thoughts In any breast of strong authority To look into the blots and stains of right. Neuer, neuer: she would alwayes say shee couldnot abide M[aster]. What should I speak? I stand dishonour'd that have gone about To link my dear friend to a common stale. The French fight coldly, and retire themselves. Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you Transport her purposes by word? Belike, SomethingI know not whatI'll love thee much Let me unseal the letter. What says our second daughter, Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak. Let me still take away the harms I fear, Not fear still to be taken. Why, then ?is none to you; for there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so: to me it is a prison. If judgment lie in them, then so do we, Because we ever have been near the King. And what wilt thou do? Beg, when that is spent? Well,sir, get you in. For you, be that you are, long; and yourmisery increase with your age! I say to you, as I was said to,away! [Exit. The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks, That their designment halts. If any man doubt that, let him put me to mypurgation. Though I die for't, as no less is threat'ned me, the King my oldmaster must be relieved. Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father A childlike office. Shall I, for love, speak treason to thy face? Open the door, or I will break it open. Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell? Sleeping or waking, mad or well-advis'd? Known unto these, and to myself disguis'd! I'll say as they say, and persever so, And in this mist at all adventures go. The Moor already changes with my poison: Dangerous conceits are in their natures poisons, Which at the first are scarce found to distaste, But with a little act upon the blood Burn like the mines of sulphur. Take that of me, my friend, who have the power To seal th' accuser's lips. Now he's coming;And not a hair upon a soldier's headWhich will not prove a whip: as many coxcombsAs you threw caps up will he tumble down,And pay you for your voices. What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true? Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much? Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu! No glory lives behind the back of such. Even he, your wife, this lady, and myself,Are suitors to you. O, thou didst then never love so heartily! If thou rememb'rest not the slightest folly That ever love did make thee run into, Thou hast not lov'd; Or if thou hast not sat as I do now, Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise, Thou hast not lov'd; Or i To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your pardon thereunto, recount the occasions of my sudden and more strange return. <ExitSCENE 2The house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUSEnter ADRIANA and LUCIANAADRIANA. They were suborn'd:Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,Are stol'n away and fled; which puts upon themSuspicion of the deed. He that commends me to mine own content Commends me to the thing I cannot get. This feather stirs; she lives! If it be so, It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows That ever I have felt. I would I were invisible, to catch the strong fellow bythe leg. Master, there's a bark of Epidamnum That stays but till her owner comes aboard, And then, sir, she bears away. By east and west let France and England mount Their battering cannon, charged to the mouths, Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city. You are at point to lose your liberties;Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,Whom late you have nam'd for consul. Who shall hinder me? I will despair, and be at enmity With cozening hope-he is a flatterer, A parasite, a keeper-back of death, Who gently would dissolve the bands of life, Which false hope lingers in extremity. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the city? Are they so followed? Ros. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not much approve me. Hath the Prince Iohn a full Commission,In very ample vertue of his Father,To heare, and absolutely to determineOf what Conditions wee shall stand vpon? West. A serviceable villain, As duteous to the vices of thy mistress As badness would desire. Let them lay by their helmets and their spears, And both return back to their chairs again. O husband, God doth know you din'd at home, Where would you had remain'd until this time, Free from these slanders and this open shame!ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Were you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come, deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak. O, farewell, honest soldier; Who hath reliev? you? Fran. Now, out of doubt, Antipholus is mad, Else would he never so demean himself. I like them all, and doe allow them well:And sweare here, by the honor of my blood,My Fathers purposes haue beene mistooke,And some, about him, haue too lauishlyWrested his meaning, and Authoritie. That drop of blood that? calm proclaims me bastard; Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot122 Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow Of my true mother. Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir, As he is but my father's brother's son, Now by my sceptre's awe I make a vow, Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood Should nothing privilege him nor partialize The unstooping firmness of my upright soul. No, not so much as will serue to be Prologue toan Egge and Butter Prin. Madam, fare you well; I'll send those powers o'er to your Majesty. How does my old acquaintance of this isle? Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus; I have found great love amongst them. Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more! Men were deceivers ever, One foot in sea, and one on shore; To one thing constant never. I am as Melancholly as aGyb-Cat, or a lugg'd Beare Prin. How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his personAt our great bidding?LADY MACBETH. By this Heauenly ground I tread on, I must befaine to pawne both my Plate, and the Tapistry of my dyningChambers Fal. But now the BishopTurnes Insurrection to Religion,Suppos'd sincere, and holy in his Thoughts:He's follow'd both with Body, and with Minde:And doth enlarge his Rising, with the bloodOf faire King Richard, scrap'd from Pomfret stones,Deriues from heauen,  'They have pressed a power, but it is not knownWhether for east or west: the dearth is great;The people mutinous: and it is rumour'd,Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,--Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,--And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,Thes Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed. Some guard these Traitors to the Block of Death,Treasons true Bed, and yeelder vp of breath. We shall not spend a large expense of timeBefore we reckon with your several loves,And make us even with you. But Ned, to driue away time till Falstaffecome, I prythee doe thou stand in some by-roome,while I question my puny Drawer, to what end hee gaueme the Sugar, and do neuer leaue calling Francis, that hisTale to me may be nothing but, Anon: step aside, and There wasnever any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and overcame. [To Laertes]146 Strengthen your patience in our last night? speech; We?l put the matter to the present push. Remember thee! Yea, from the table of my memory I?l wipe away all trivial fond records, All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past, That youth and observation copied there; And thy commandment all alone shall live Within the book and volume of my  Ile be damn'd for neuer a Kings sonne in Christendome Prin. What a diuell hast thou to do with the time of the day?vnlesse houres were cups of Sacke, and minutes Capons,and clockes the tongues of Bawdes, and dialls the signesof Leaping-houses, and the blessed Sunne himselfe a fairehot Wench in Flame-coloured TaffMy way is to conjure you; and I'll begin with the women. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats Will not debate the question of this straw: This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace, That inward breaks, and shows no cause without Why the man dies. This haue I rumour'd through the peasant-Townes,Betweene the Royall Field of Shrewsburie,And this Worme-eaten-Hole of ragged Stone,Where Hotspurres Father, old Northumberland,Lyes crafty sicke. He hath deserved worthily of his country: and his ascent is notby such easy degrees as those who, having been supple andcourteous to the people, bonnetted, without any further deed tohave them at all, into their estimation and report: but he hathso plantDown with him, down with him![In this mutiny the TRIBUNES, the AEDILES, and the people arebeat in. This is mere madness: And thus a while the fit will work on him; Anon, as patient as the female dove, When that her golden couplets are disclos?, His silence will sit drooping. Shallow, do not you grieueat this: I shall be sent for in priuate to him: Looke you,he must seeme thus to the world: feare not your aduancement:I will be the man yet, that shall make you great Shal. Good madam, what's the matter with my lord? DESDEMONA. I play the torturer, by small and small To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken: Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke; And all your northern castles yielded up, And all your southern gentlemen in arms Upon his party. O sir, you are not right; have you not knownThe worthiest men have done't!CORIOLANUS. But why did he swear he would come this morning, and comes not? CELIA. Besides, I will be sworn these ears of mine Heard you confess you had the chain of him, After you first forswore it on the mart; And thereupon I drew my sword on you, And then you fled into this abbey here, From whence, I think, you are come by miracle. Pray heavens he be, For I have served him, and the man commands Like a full soldier. Heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind! EMILIA. If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life, With thine, and all that offer to defend him, Stand in assured loss. Cure her of that:Canst thou not minister to a mind diseas'd;Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow;Raze out the written troubles of the brain;And with some sweet oblivious antidoteCleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuffWhich weighs upon the heartLet me but move one question to your daughter, And by that fatherly and kindly power That you have in her, bid her answer truly. He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n, Let him not know't and he's not robb'd at all. He had a fever when he was in Spain, And when the fit was on him I did mark How he did shake. Stick deep; and in his royalty of natureReigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares;And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valourTo act in safety. Giue me your hand, giue me your Worships goodhand: Trust me, you looke well: and beare your yearesvery well. They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,But, bear-like I must fight the course. But, on: six Barbary horses against six French swords, their assigns, and three liberal conceited carriages: that? the French bet against the Danish: why is this all imponed, as you call it? Osr. This tiger-footed rage, when it shall findThe harm of unscann'd swiftness, will, too late,Tie leaden pounds to's heels. It doth me: though it discolours the complexionof my Greatnesse to acknowledge it. I never long'd to hear a word till now; Say 'pardon,' King; let pity teach thee how. Here lay Duncan,His silver skin lac'd with his golden blood;And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in natureFor ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers,Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggersUnmannerly breech'd with gore: who coul Strike on the tinder, ho! Give me a taper! Call up all my people! This accident is not unlike my dream; Belief of it oppresses me already. Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life Cuts off so many years of fearing death. [To Silvius] I will content you if what pleases you contents you,and you shall be married to-morrow. Signior Montano, Your trusty and most valiant servitor, With his free duty recommends you thus, And prays you to believe him. I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace' In an ungracious mouth is but profane. I have been told so of many; but indeed an oldreligious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was in his youth aninland man; one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell inlove. Pour in sow's blood, that hath eatenHer nine farrow; grease that's sweatenFrom the murderer's gibbet throwInto the flame. This broken joint between you and her husband entreat her tosplinter; and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack ofyour love shall grow stronger than it was before. O, if you raise this house against this house, It will the woefullest division prove That ever fell upon this cursed earth. Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms, Both who he is and why he cometh hither Thus plated in habiliments of war; And formally, according to our law, Depose him in the justice of his cause. For there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a glass. Why, sir, his hide is so tann? with his trade that he will keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body. Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the COURTEZAN, and a SCHOOLMASTERcall'd PINCHANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. For one poor grainOr two! I am one of those; his mother, wife,His child, and this brave fellow toowe are the grains:You are the musty chaff; and you are smeltAbove the moon: we must be burnt for you. Cassius, Be not deceived; if I have veil'd my look, I turn the trouble of my countenance Merely upon myself. And these few precepts in thy memory Look thou character. )Thou hast a better place in his Affection,Then all thy Brothers: cherish it (my Boy)And Noble Offices thou may'st effectOf Mediation (after I am dead)Betweene his Greatnesse, and thy other Brethren. I would we could do so; for her benefits are mightily misplaced; and the bountiful blind woman doth most mistake inher gifts to women. Marry, would the word 'farewell' have length'ned hours And added years to his short banishment, He should have had a volume of farewells; But since it would not, he had none of me. Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it. ' And then he drew a dial from his poke, And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye, Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock; Thus we may see,' quoth he, 'how the world wags; 'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine; And after one hour more 'twill be eleven; AndThey are dissolved: hang 'em!They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs,--That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent notCorn for the rich men only:--with these shredsThey vented their comI beseech you, peace:Or, if you'd ask, remember this before,--The thing I have forsworn to grant may neverBe held by you denials. How many thousand of my poorest SubiectsAre at this howre asleepe? O Sleepe, O gentle Sleepe,Natures soft Nurse, how haue I frighted thee,That thou no more wilt weigh my eye-lids downe,And steepe my Sences in Forgetfulnesse?Why rather (Sleepe) lyest thouIf fortune brag of two she lov'd and hated, One of them we behold. Out on thee, rude man! Thou dost shame thy mother, And wound her honour with this diffidence. Within my tent his bones tonight shall lie, Most like a soldier, ordered honorably. So tell the Pope, all reverence set apart To him and his usurp'd authority. The nobles in great earnestness are goingAll to the senate-house: some news is comeThat turns their countenances. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top66 of question, and are most tyrannically clapped for?: these are now the fashion; and so berattle the common stages,?o they cal If consequence do but approve my dream, My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream. I have made strong proof of my constancy, Giving myself a voluntary wound Here in the thigh. Murder, murder,O thou Hony-suckle villaine, wilt thou kill Gods officers,and the Kings? O thou hony-seed Rogue, thou arta honyseed, a Man-queller, and a woman-queller Falst. How doth the good Knight?may I aske, how my Lady his Wife doth? Bard. Though thou speak'st truth,Methinks thou speak'st not well. It is concluded:--Banquo, thy soul's flight,If it find heaven, must find it out to-night. Art thou anything? Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare? Speak to me what thou art. The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,His uncle Siward, and the good Macduff. Now, this no more dishonours you at allThan to take in a town with gentle words,Which else would put you to your fortune andThe hazard of much blood. Belike you thought our love would last too long, If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not. O, what a noble combat hast thou fought Between compulsion and a brave respect! Let me wipe off this honourable dew That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks. And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that Iknow. The prince of darkness is a gentleman! Modo he's call'd, and Mahu. Let husbands know Their wives have sense like them; they see and smell And have their palates both for sweet and sour, As husbands have. Remember him hereafter as my honourable friend. Which harm within itself so heinous is As it makes harmful all that speak of it. Shall Caesar send a lie? Have I in conquest stretch'd mine arm so far To be afeard to tell greybeards the truth? Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come. Ah, but I think him better than I say, And yet would herein others' eyes were worse. Because I would not see thy cruel nails Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs. I pray you, will you take him by the arm? OLIVER. --What's heThat was not born of woman? Such a oneAm I to fear, or none. In wisdom I should ask thy name; But since thy outside looks so fair and warlike, And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes, What safe and nicely I might well delay By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn. But seestthou not what a deformed thief this fashion is? 2. If aught possess thee from me, it is dross, Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss; Who all, for want of pruning, with intrusion Infect thy sap, and live on thy confusion. Hath he never before sounded you in this business? Edm. Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him? SOOTHSAYER. What's best to do? If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife. Counterfeit? I am no counterfeit;to dye, is to be a counterfeit, for hee is but thecounterfeit of a man, who hath not the life of a man: Butto counterfeit dying, when a man thereby liueth, is to beno counterfeit, but the true and perfect image of life i The raven himself is hoarseThat croaks the fatal entrance of DuncanUnder my battlements. Some say that ever ?ainst that season comes Wherein our Saviour? birth is celebrated, The bird of dawning singeth all night long; And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad; The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike, No fairy takes, nor witch Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd, Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands, Who to Philippi here consorted us. I know your lady does not love her husband; I am sure of that; and at her late being here She gave strange eliads and most speaking looks To noble Edmund. Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones,In puny battle slay me. Where is thy master, Dromio? Is he well?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears! I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him. God for his mercy, what treachery is here! DUCHESS. Stand you directly in Antonio's way, When he doth run his course. I do repent me; read not my name there; My heart is not confederate with my hand. After them enter] Don John [and Borachio (without masks), who stand aside and look on during the dance]. Hath there been such a time,?? fain know that?That I have positively said ?is so,?When it prov? otherwise? King. [To ORLANDO] You to a love that your true faith doth merit; [To OLIVER] You to your land, and love, and great allies [To SILVIUS] You to a long and well-deserved bed; [To TOUCHSTONE] And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage Is but for two months vict Friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love. Wee'le with-draw a while:Goe to the King, and let there be impawn'dSome suretie for a safe returne againe,And in the Morning early shall my VnckleBring him our purpose: and so farewell Blunt. Your hands, come: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb; lest my extent to the players, which I tell you must show fairly outward, should more appear like67 entertainment than yours. Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister; And keep you in the rear of your affection, Out of the shot and danger of desire. What do ye talk?Have we not had a taste of his obedience?Our aediles smote? ourselves resisted?--come,--MENENIUS. I am too old to fawn upon a nurse, Too far in years to be a pupil now. My liege, here is the strangest controversy Come from the country to be judg'd by you That e'er I heard. Would I were assur'd Of my condition! Cor. This says she now when she is beginning to write to him;for she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit inher smock till she have writ a sheet of paper. That will never be:Who can impress the forest; bid the treeUnfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements, good!Rebellion's head, rise never till the woodOf Birnam rise, and our high-plac'd MacbethShall live the lease of nature, pay his breathTo time and moYea, in 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for I hearas good exclamation on your worship as of any man in the city;and though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it. Ah, good father,Thou seest, the heavens, as troubled with man's act,Threaten his bloody stage: by the clock 'tis day,And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp;Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,That darkness does the face of earth entomWhy, what's the matter That you have such a February face, So full of frost, of storm, and cloudiness? Claud. Bound to himself! What doth he with a bond That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool. Which thing to do, If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trace For his quick hunting, stand the putting on, I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip, Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb (For I fear Cassio with my nightcap too), Make the Moor thank me,  Let's briefly put on manly readiness,And meet i' the hall together. I saw it, and told Iohn of Gaunt, hee beat his owneName, for you might haue truss'd him and all his Apparrellinto an Eele-skinne: the Case of a Treble Hoeboywas a Mansion for him: a Court: and now hathhee Land, and Beeues. The King hath many marching in his Coats Dow. Nay, rather let mee haue it, as you are a falseTheefe Gad. Away, away! If you will measure your lubber's length again, tarry;but away! Go to! Have you wisdom? So. Tremble, thou wretch, That hast within thee undivulged crimes Unwhipp'd of justice. But for all that, to my thinking, he would fain have had it. Wil't please your Grace to goe along with vs? P. The noble Duke my master, My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night. '"How mighty then you are, O hear me tell! The broken bosoms that to me belong Have emptied all their fountains in my well, And mine I pour your ocean all among. A villanousCoward, go thy wayes old Iacke, die when thouwilt, if manhood, good manhood be not forgot vpon theface of the earth, then am I a shotten Herring: there liuesnot three good men vnhang'd in England, & one of themis fat, and growes old, God help But men may construe things after their fashion, Clean from the purpose of the things themselves. They are generallyFooles, and Cowards; which some of vs should be too,but for inflamation. Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it willout at the casement; shut that, and 'twill out at the key-hole;stop that, 'twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney. What, the Commonwealth their Bootes? Willshe hold out water in foule way? Gad. There? another: why may not that be the skull of a lawyer? Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him o Shepherdess, look on him better, And be not proud; though all the world could see, None could be so abus'd in sight as he. I pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them ill-favouredly. This Marcius is grown from man to dragon;he has wings; he's more than a creeping thing. Nay, you may think my love was crafty love, And call it cunning. But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Let him bee damn'd like the Glutton, may hisTongue be hotter, a horson Achitophel; aRascally-yea-forsooth-knaue,to beare a Gentleman in hand, and thenstand vpon Security? The horson smooth-pates doe nowweare nothing but high shoes, and bunches of Keyes  And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very many of us. Accommodated: that is, when a man is(as they say) accommodated: or, when a man is, beingwhereby he thought to be accommodated, which is anexcellent thing. The Care on thee depending,Hath fed vpon the body of my Father,Therefore, thou best of Gold, art worst of Gold. How doth my Sonne, and Brother?Thou trembl'st; and the whitenesse in thy CheekeIs apter then thy Tongue, to tell thy Errand. Lord Mortimer, and Cousin Glendower,Will you sit downe?And Vnckle Worcester; a plague vpon it,I haue forgot the Mappe Glend. She should have died hereafter;There would have been a time for such a word. We see the very wreck that we must suffer; And unavoided is the danger now For suffering so the causes of our wreck. What I haue done, my safety vrg'd me to,And I embrace this fortune patiently,Since not to be auoyded, it fals on mee King. His roguish madness Allows itself to anything. While they weigh so even, We hold our town for neither, yet for both. I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows does well; but how does it well? it does well to those that do ill: now, thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the church; argal, the gallows may do well to thee. A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuff'd with allhonourable virtues. To be, or not to be,?hat is the question:?Whether ?is nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune Or to take arms against a sea of troubles, And by opposing end them??o die,?o sleep,?No more; and by a sleep to say we end The O heinous, strong, and bold conspiracy! O loyal father of a treacherous son! Thou sheer, immaculate, and silver fountain, From whence this stream through muddy passages Hath held his current and defil'd himself! Thy overflow of good converts to bad; And Are these your herd?--Must these have voices, that can yield them now,And straight disclaim their tongues?--What are your offices?You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?Have you not set them on?MENENIUS. That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold:What hath quench'd them hath given me fire. I would sing my song without a burden; thou bring'st meout of tune. Nay, she must be old, she cannot choose but beold: certaine shee's old: and had Robin Night-worke, byold Night-worke, before I came to Clements Inne Sil. I am now from home, and out of that provision Which shall be needful for your entertainment. Why, we are still handling our ewes; and their fells,you know, are greasy. Doth he still rage? ExitBIGOT PEMBROKE. 'Las, what's the matter? What's the matter, husband? IAGO. Thou hast made me giddy With these in tidings. The flat transgression of a schoolboy who, beingoverjoyed with finding a bird's nest, shows it his companion, and hesteals it. Well, Brutus, thou art noble; yet, I see Thy honorable mettle may be wrought From that it is disposed; therefore it is meet That noble minds keep ever with their likes; For who so firm that cannot be seduced? Caesar doth bear me hard, but he loves Brutu What handkerchief? EMILIA. Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you:?Good night, mother. I'll about And drive away the vulgar from the streets; So do you too, where you perceive them thick. O Lymoges! O Austria! thou dost shame That bloody spoil. Well praised! How if she be black and witty? IAGO. And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank youtoo for your society. O! let me clip yeIn arms as sound as when I woo'd; in heartAs merry as when our nuptial day was done,And tapers burn'd to bedward. Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shallnot shame me. I thank you, sir; and pray you tell me this: Which of the two was daughter of the Duke That here was at the wrestling? LE BEAU. Now I perceiue the Deuill vnderstands Welsh,And 'tis no maruell he is so humorous:Byrlady hee's a good Musitian Lady. Let him come when he will; I will deny thee nothing. Does't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee, And thou by that small hurt hast cashier'd Cassio. Discomfort guides my tongue, And bids me speak of nothing but despair. Come-on, come-on, come-on: giue mee yourHand, Sir; giue mee your Hand, Sir: an early stirrer, bythe Rood. Drunk? and speak parrot? and squabble? swagger?swear? and discourse fustian with one's own shadow? O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let uscall thee devil! IAGO. Go, good partner, go get you to Francis Seacoal; bid himbring his pen and inkhorn to the jail. He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape adoctor to such a man. His man enters with his boots DUCHESS. I am no orator, as Brutus is; But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man, That love my friend, and that they know full well That gave me public leave to speak of him. I wonder much, being me[n] of such great leading as you areThat you fore-see not what impedimentsDrag backe our expedition: certaine HorseOf my Cousin Vernons are not yet come vp,Your Vnckle Worcesters Horse came but to day,And now their pride and mettalMy Lord, I ouer-rod him on the way,And he is furnish'd with no certainties,More then he (haply) may retaile from me Nor. Call it not patience, Gaunt-it is despair; In suff'ring thus thy brother to be slaught'red, Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life, Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee. West of this Forrest, scarcely off a mile,In goodly forme, comes on the Enemie:And by the ground they hide, I iudge their numberVpon, or neere, the rate of thirtie thousand Mow. O, I coulddiuide my selfe, and go to buffets, for mouing such a dishof skim'd Milk with so honourable an Action. Exeunt all but theBASTARD A foot of honour better than I was; But many a many foot of land the worse. I would have had thee there, and here again, Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there. Speak, citizens, for England; who's your king? CITIZEN. Enter Falstaffe, Shallow, Pistoll, Bardolfe, and Page. I take some joy to say you are, because I would betalking of her. Ill-spirited Worcester, did we not send Grace,Pardon, and tearmes of Loue to all of you?And would'st thou turne our offers contrary?Misuse the tenor of thy Kinsmans trust?Three Knights vpon our party slaine to day,A Noble Earle, and many a creature else,What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him; What like, offensive. No, good madam, pardon me; indeed I will not forth. Go to Flint Castle; there I'll pine away; A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey. O, well did he become that lion's robe That did disrobe the lion of that robe! BASTARD. No: Fifteene hundred Foot, fiue hundred HorseAre march'd vp to my Lord of Lancaster,Against Northumberland, and the Archbishop Fal. The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, theDuke's wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him, and brokethree of his ribs, that there is little hope of life in him. For I will beleeueThou wilt not vtter what thou do'st not know,And so farre wilt I trust thee, gentle Kate La. What seal is that that without thy bosom? Yea, look'st thou pale? Let me see the writing. Enter Othello, Iago, and Attendants with torches. I have given suck, and knowHow tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:I would, while it was smiling in my face,Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gumsAnd dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn as youHave done to this. Exeunt [Gloucester and Edmund]. When from the first to last, betwixt us two, Tears our recountments had most kindly bath'd, As how I came into that desert place In brief, he led me to the gentle Duke, Who gave me fresh array and entertainment, Committing me unto my brother's love; Who And I'll go seek the Duke; his banquet is prepar'd. Henceforth I'll bear Affliction till it do cry out itself 'Enough, enough,' and die. The galleys Have sent a dozen sequent messengers This very night at one another's heels; And many of the consuls, raised and met, Are at the Duke's already. I have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage;and so I commit you- Claud. The former agents, if they did complain,What could the belly answer? MENENIUS. Though that the Queen on special cause is here, Her army is mov'd on. They are worn, lord consul, soThat we shall hardly in our ages seeTheir banners wave again. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through the guts of a beggar. All thy other titles thou hast given away; that thou wast born with. He is already nam'd; and gone to SconeTo be invested. Ay, Casca, tell us what hath chanced today That Caesar looks so sad. How green you are and fresh in this old world! John lays you plots; the times conspire with you; For he that steeps his safety in true blood Shall find but bloody safety and untrue. If that the Turkish fleet Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd; It is impossible to bear it out. I shall do so;But I must also feel it as a man:I cannot but remember such things were,That were most precious to me. I here do give thee that with all my heart Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart I would keep from thee. But doth not theappetite alters? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannotendure in his age. He's worth no more:They say he parted well, and paid his score:And so, God be with him!--Here comes newer comfort. We are not to stay alltogether, but to come by him where he stands, by ones, by twos,and by threes. What bloody man is that? He can report,As seemeth by his plight, of the revoltThe newest state. Fit to govern!No, not to live!--O nation miserable,With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,Since that the truest issue of thy throneBy his own interdiction stands accurs'dAnd does blaspheme his breed?--Thy roFor me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune: I have some rights of memory in this kingdom, Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me. Three times hath Henry Bullingbrooke made headAgainst my Power: thrice from the Banks of Wye,And sandy-bottom'd Seuerne, haue I hent himBootlesse home, and Weather-beaten backe Hotsp. If, on the tenth day following, Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions, The moment is thy death. What can man's wisdom In the restoring his bereaved sense? He that helps him take all my outward worth. Hee greetes me well: (Sir) I knew him agood Back-Sword-man. For, since the mortal and intestine jars 'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us, It hath in solemn synods been decreed, Both by the Syracusians and ourselves, To admit no traffic to our adverse towns; Nay, more: if any born at Ephesus Be seen at any Syr They say many young gentlemen flock to him everyday, and fleet the time carelessly, as they did in the goldenworld. O, come, let us remove! The sight of lovers feedeth those in love. We came crying hither; Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air We wawl and cry. Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf, And tell me truly what thou think'st of him. If you did wear a beard upon your chin, I'ld shake it on this quarrel. This it is: 'Tis better that the enemy seek us; So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers, Doing himself offense, whilst we lying still Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness. By this hand, I say 'tis very scurvy, and begin to find myself fopped in it. Enter YORK BOLINGBROKE. He led our powers, Bore the commission of my place and person, The which immediacy may well stand up And call itself your brother. What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture? CORIN. Most gracious Duke, To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear, And let me find a charter in your voice To assist my simpleness. There is not a white haire on your face, but sholdhaue his effect of grauity Fal. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both? Ros. Hear you, sir; What is the reason that you use me thus? I lov? you ever: but it is no matter; Let Hercules himself do what he may, The cat will mew, and dog will have his day. Faith, once or twice she heav'd the name of father Pantingly forth, as if it press'd her heart; Cried 'Sisters, sisters! Shame of ladies! Sisters! Kent! father! sisters! What, i' th' storm? i' th' night? Let pity not be believ'd!' There she shook The ho What effects, my lord? She will sit you--you heard my daughter tell you how. Anon Francis? No Francis, but to morrow Francis:or Francis, on thursday: or indeed Francis when thouwilt. Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and others. It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiantgeneral, that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet, every man put himself into triumph; some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man towhat sport and revels  Against ill Chances, men are euer merry,But heauinesse fore-runnes the good euent West. Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance From those that she calls servants, or from mine? Reg. Now, most noble Brutus, The gods today stand friendly that we may, Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age! But, since the affairs of men rest still incertain, Let's reason with the worst that may befall. Are these, I pray you, wind instruments? FIRST MUSICIAN. Master, go on; and I will follow the To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty. If any such there be, heaven pardon him! EMILIA. Good uncle, help to order several powers To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are. And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with thee to disgrace her. Of very reverend reputation, sir, Of credit infinite, highly belov'd, Second to none that lives here in the city; His word might bear my wealth at any time. A hundred thousand Rebels dye in this:Thou shalt haue Charge, and soueraigne trust herein. Goe, good Lord Hastings:And ere they be dismiss'd, let them march by. O my dear father, restoration hang Thy medicine on my lips, and let this kiss Repair those violent harms that my two sisters Have in thy reverence made! Kent. Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the worldbut I, and I am sunburnt. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern. All the regionsDo smilingly revolt; and who resistsAre mock'd for valiant ignorance,And perish constant fools. O general, Here is the steed, we the caparison:Hadst thou beheld,--MARCIUS. Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood! Fiery? the fiery Duke? Tell the hot Duke that No, but not yet! May be he is not well. For0his diuisions (as the Times do braul)Are in three Heads: one Power against the French,And one against Glendower: Perforce a thirdMust take vp vs: So is the vnfirme KingIn three diuided: and his Coffers soundWith hollow Pouerty, and Emptinesse Ar. No, Bolingbroke; if ever I were traitor, My name be blotted from the book of life, And I from heaven banish'd as from hence! But what thou art, God, thou, and I, do know; And all too soon, I fear, the King shall rue. What from the cape can you discern at sea? FIRST GENTLEMAN. Caesar goes up to the Senate House, the rest follow. He prays but faintly and would be denied; We pray with heart and soul, and all beside. Fear and be slain-no worse can come to fight; And fight and die is death destroying death, Where fearing dying pays death servile breath. I know our country disposition well; In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown. In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it. Here is a letter Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo, And here another. Help, help, help! The murderers, EXTON and servants, rush in, armed KING RICHARD. To cudgel you and make you take the hatch, To dive like buckets in concealed wells, To crouch in litter of your stable planks, To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks, To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out In vaults and prisons, and to th Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us:--The Volsces are in arms. T'one is my sovereign, whom both my oath And duty bids defend; t'other again Is my kinsman, whom the King hath wrong'd, Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right. The tyrant custom, most grave senators, Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war My thrice-driven bed of down. [They draw]Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the COURTEZAN, and OTHERSADRIANA. Double, double, toil and trouble;Fire, burn; and caldron, bubble. Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland And all the rest revolted faction traitors? GREEN. Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent: When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage; Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed; At gaming, swearing; or about some act That has no relish of salvation in?;?Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven; To see a reverend Syracusian merchant, Who put unluckily into this bay Against the laws and statutes of this town, Beheaded publicly for his offence. Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man. Is that the elder, and art thou the heir? You came not of one mother then, it seems. When he shall hear she died upon his words, Th' idea of her life shall sweetly creep Into his study of imagination, And every lovely organ of her life Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit, More moving, delicate, and full of life, Into the eye an Why then, depart in peace and let the child wake her with crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baeswill never answer a calf when he bleats. But, hark![Drums and trumpets sound, with great shouts of the people. We all that are engaged to this losse,Knew that we ventur'd on such dangerous Seas,That if we wrought out life, was ten to one:And yet we ventur'd for the gaine propos'd,Choak'd the respect of likely perill fear'd,And since we are o're-set, venture agai Why, to put's head in; not to give it away to hisdaughters, and leave his horns without a case. Myfather charg'd you in his will to give me good education: you have train'd me like a peasant, obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like qualities. Findout this villain, Edmund; it shall lose thee nothing; do it carefully. Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,But mantled in your own. The more pity that fools may not speak wisely whatwise men do foolishly. Pray God, your voice, like a piece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the ring. If he see aught in you that makes him like, That anything he sees which moves his liking I can with ease translate it to my will; Or if you will, to speak more properly, I will enforce it eas'ly to my love. I remember, when I was in love, I brokemy sword upon a stone, and bid him take that for coming a-nightto Jane Smile; and I remember the kissing of her batler, and the cow's dugs that her pretty chopt hands had milk'd; and Iremember the wooing of peascod Or so much as it needs,To dew the sovereign flower, and drown the weeds. Will you walk in to see their gossiping?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks; They are all fire and every one doth shine; But there's but one in all doth hold his place. Well, breath a-while, and then to't againe: andwhen thou hast tyr'd thy selfe in base comparisons, heareme speake but thus Poin. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and LORDS, likeoutlaws DUKE SENIOR. My gracious lord, I tender you my service, Such as it is, being tender, raw, and young; Which elder days shall ripen, and confirm To more approved service and desert. Me rather had my heart might feel your love Than my unpleas'd eye see your courtesy. Enter on the walls, the KING, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, AUMERLE, SCROOP, and SALISBURY See, see, King Richard doth himself appear, As doth the blushing discontented sun From out the fiery portal of the east, When he perceives the envious clouds are bent T But harke you Kate,Whither I go, thither shall you go too:To day will I set forth, to morrow you. I cannot now speake, I will heare you soone:Take them away Pist. [TITUS LARTIUS, having set a guard upon Corioli, going with drumand trumpet toward COMINIUS and CAIUS MARCIUS, enters with aLIEUTENANT, a party of Soldiers, and a Scout. I saw it in his hand, It was a handkerchief, an antique token My father gave my mother. And your vnthought-of Harry chance to meet:For euery Honor sitting on his Helme,Would they were multitudes, and on my headMy shames redoubled. I mean not cuckold-mad; But, sure, he is stark mad. If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me;and he that hits me, let him be clapp'd on the shoulder andcall'd Adam. O thou Othello, that wert once so good, Fall'n in the practice of a damned slave, What shall be said to thee? OTHELLO. I neuer see thy Face, but I thinke vpon Hell fire, and Diuesthat liued in Purple; for there he is in his Robes burning,burning. What Hal? How now mad Wag, what a Deuilldo'st thou in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmerland,I cry you mercy, I thought your Honour had alreadybeene at Shrewsbury West. O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall 's dead, Slain by his servant, going to put out The other eye of Gloucester. God help the noble Claudio! If he have caught the Benedick, itwill cost him a thousand pound ere 'a be cured. Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense That thou hast practiced on her with foul charms, Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals That weaken motion. If there be cords or knives, Poison or fire, or suffocating streams, I'll not endure it. See whether their basest metal be not moved; They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness. Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak; 'Tis proper I obey him, but not now. You may do your will, But he's a tried and valiant soldier. For my voice, I haue lost it with hallowingand singing of Anthemes. Exeunt Othello, Desdemona, andAttendants. If Percy be aliue, Ile pierce him: if he do come inmy way, so: if he do not, if I come in his (willingly) lethim make a Carbonado of me. And the Boy that I gaue Falstaffe, he had himfrom me Christian, and see if the fat villain haue not transform'dhim Ape. Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord; Say I am merry. I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and thy honourAt difference in thee; out of that I'll workMyself a former fortune. I haue giuen ouer, I will speak no more,Do what you will: your Wisedome, be your guide North. Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more; I am not partial to infringe our laws. Well then, Colleuile is your Name, a Knight isyour Degree, and your Place, the Dale. I will not trouble you As yet to question you about your fortunes. You cannot, if my heart were in your hand; Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody. I am not onely witty in myselfe, but the cause that wit is in other men. What thegood-yere? One must beare, and that must bee you:you are the weaker Vessell; as they say, the emptierVessell Dol. Varro and Claudio lie down. Heaven would that she these gifts should have, And I to live and die her slave. Hee willfoyne like any diuell, he will spare neither man, woman,nor childe Fang. Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that: for the defenceof a town our general is excellent. And can you, by no drift of circumstance, Get from him why he puts on this confusion, Grating so harshly all his days of quiet With turbulent and dangerous lunacy? Ros. Thy dow'rless daughter, King, thrown to my chance, Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France. He's a soldier; and for one to say a soldier lies, is stabbing. Come, come, Lord Mortimer, you are as slow,As hot Lord Percy is on fire to goe. Well then, to work! Our cannon shall be bent Against the brows of this resisting town; Call for our chiefest men of discipline, To cull the plots of best advantages. Thus, pretty lady, I am sorry for thy much misgovernment. [To ORLANDO] I will satisfyyou if ever I satisfied man, and you shall be married to-morrow. O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, rail'dat herself that she should be so immodest to write to one thatshe knew would flout her. Ne'er may I look on day nor sleep on night But she tells to your Highness simple truth!ANGELO. Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour: Go to your rest; at night we?l feast together: Most welcome home! [Exeunt Voltimand and Cornelius. If sight and shape be true, Why then, my love adieu! ROSALIND. Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France In my behaviour to the majesty, The borrowed majesty, of England here. Why did you leaue me here alone (my Lords?) Cla. Marry, sir, she's the kitchen-wench, and all grease; and I know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light. Cry 'Holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets unseasonably. Let's choose executors and talk of wills; And yet not so-for what can we bequeath Save our deposed bodies to the ground? Our lands, our lives, and an, are Bolingbroke's. Iago hath direction what to do; But notwithstanding with my personal eye Will I look to't. Now Sirs: you fought faire; so did youPeto, so did you Bardol: you are Lyons too, you ranneaway vpon instinct: you will not touch the true Prince;no, fie Bard. If partially affined, or leagued in office, Thou dost deliver more or less than truth, Thou art no soldier. And we create, in absence of ourself, Our Uncle York Lord Governor of England; For he is just, and always lov'd us well. You may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar. [Tears at his clothes. Here was a Caesar! When comes such another? FIRST CITIZEN. I know you what you are; And, like a sister, am most loath to call Your faults as they are nam'd. Good my mother, peace! I would that I were low laid in my grave: I am not worth this coil that's made for me. Tush, tush, man! never fleer and jest at me I speak not like a dotard nor a fool, As under privilege of age to brag What I have done being young, or what would do, Were I not old. I am eight times thrust through the Doublet,foure through the Hose, my Buckler cut through andthrough, my Sword hackt like a Hand-saw, ecce signum. How like you this wild counsel, mighty states? Smacks it not something of the policy? KING JOHN. O wretched fool, That livest to make thine honesty a vice! O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world, To be direct and honest is not safe. Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in everythinghereafter. No further go in this,Then I by Letters shall direct your courseWhen time is ripe, which will be sodainly:Ile steale to Glendower, and loe, Mortimer,Where you, and Dowglas, and our powres at once,As I will fashion it, shall happily meete,To beare our fo If such a one will smile and stroke his beard, Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem' when he should groan, Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk With candle-wasters--bring him yet to me, And I of him will gather patience. I did obey, and sent my peasant home For certain ducats; he with none return'd. 1596KING RICHARD THE SECONDby William ShakespeareDRAMATIS PERSONAE KING RICHARD THE SECOND JOHN OF GAUNT, Duke of Lancaster uncle to the King EDMUND LANGLEY, Duke of York uncle to the King HENRY, surnamed BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford, son of John of GauThe several messengers From hence attend dispatch. He is dead and gone, lady, He is dead and gone; At his head a grass green turf, At his heels a stone. The DAUPHIN'S camp at Saint EdmundsburyEnter, in arms, LEWIS, SALISBURY, MELUN, PEMBROKE, BIGOT, andsoldiers LEWIS. O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh orfish, A table full of welcome makes scarce one dainty dish. What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living? Beat. By the consent of all, we were establish'dThe people's magistrates. Iohn of Gaunt louedhim well, and betted much Money on his head. When I like your favour, for God defend the lute shouldbe like the case! Pedro. Most heathenish and most gross! LODOVICO. Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste, And get you from our court. For, sir, It is as sure as you are Roderigo, Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago. I have liv'd long enough: my way of lifeIs fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;And that which should accompany old age,As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends,I must not look to have; but, in their stead,Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honour, bPray you, let? have no words of this; but when they ask you what it means, say you this: [Sings. Then take (my Lord of Westmerland) this Schedule,For this containes our generall Grieuances:Each seuerall Article herein redress'd,All members of our Cause, both here, and hence,That are insinewed to this Action,Acquitted by a true substantiall forme,An Now, Cinna; now, Metellus; what, Trebonius, I have an hour's talk in store for you; Remember that you call on me today; Be near me, that I may remember you. O, I could play the woman with mine eye,And braggart with my tongue!--But, gentle heavens,Cut short all intermission; front to frontBring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,Heaven forgive him too!MALCOLMLast night of all, When yond same star that? westward from the pole Had made his course to illume that part of heaven Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself, The bell then beating one,?Mar. If hee be sicke with Ioy,Hee'le recouer without Physicke War. An you'll come to supper tonight, you may; an you willnot, come when you are next prepared for. Good news, good news;--the ladies have prevail'd,The Volscians are dislodg'd, and Marcius gone:A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins. And, by my faith, this league that we have made Will give her sadness very little cure. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the king? pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided153 I be so able as now. Therefore, you clown, abandonwhich is in the vulgar leavethe society-which in the boorish is companyof this femalewhich in thecommon is womanwhich together is: abandon the society of this female;or, clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better understanding A better then thou: I am a Gentleman, thou arta Drawer Prince. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy: there was, for awhile, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question. Like the old tale, my lord: 'It is not so, nor 'twas notso; but indeed, God forbid it should be so!' Claud. Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bonesOut of thy garments. This is most strange, That she that even but now was your best object, The argument of your praise, balm of your age, Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time Commit a thing so monstrous to dismantle So many folds of favour. Sicke now? droope now? this sicknes doth infectThe very Life-blood of our Enterprise,'Tis catching hither, euen to our Campe. I durst have denied that, before you were so choleric. The question of his death is enrolled in the Capitol, his glory not extenuated, wherein hewas worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffereddeath. But yet I call you servile ministers, That will with two pernicious daughters join Your high-engender'd battles 'gainst a head So old and white as this! O! O! 'tis foul! Fool. Villain, thou diest! Makes a pass atCassio. I am a soldier, I, Older in practice, abler than yourself To make conditions. I think 'twill serve, if heCan thereto frame his spirit. Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth, With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks, Turn all her mother's pains and benefits To laughter and contempt, that she may feel How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child! Away, awa I may say "thrusting" it, For piercing steel and darts envenomed Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus As tidings of this sight. Best of my flesh,Forgive my tyranny; but do not say,For that, 'Forgive our Romans. But who dare tell her so? If I should speak, She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me Out of myself, press me to death with wit! Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire, Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly. Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it Prin. By that and all the rites of knighthood else Will I make good against thee, arm to arm, What I have spoke or thou canst worst devise. Then by the lawful power that I have Thou shalt stand curs'd and excommunicate; And blessed shall he be that doth revolt From his allegiance to an heretic; And meritorious shall that hand be call'd, Canonized, and worshipp'd as a saint, That takes away  The Roman gods,Lead their successes as we wish our own,That both our powers, with smiling fronts encountering,May give you thankful sacrifice!--[Enter A MESSENGER. If there come truth from them,--As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine,--Why, by the verities on thee made good,May they not be my oracles as well,And set me up in hope? But hush; no more. O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption! Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man! Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart! Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas! Would they make peace? Terrible hell make war Upon their spotted  'From the east to western Inde, No jewel is like Rosalinde. O Hamlet, speak no more:103 Thou turn?t mine eyes into my very soul; And there I see such black and grained spots As will not leave their tinct. Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this? Gon. By your pardon, I will myself into the pulpit first, And show the reason of our Caesar's death. And are not you my husband?ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. What subject can give sentence on his king? And who sits here that is not Richard's subject? Thieves are not judg'd but they are by to hear, Although apparent guilt be seen in them; And shall the figure of God's majesty, His captain, steward, deputy ele Trebonius doth desire you to o'er read, At your best leisure, this his humble suit. The same mad fellow of the North, Percy;and hee of Wales, that gaue Amamon the Bastinado,and made Lucifer Cuckold, and swore the Deuill his trueLiege-man vpon the Crosse of a Welch-hooke; what aplague call you him? Poin. So please you, he is here at the door and importunesaccess to you. Ha, ha boy! say?t thou so? art thou there, truepenny??Come on!?ou hear this fellow in the cellarage,?Consent to swear. For an end,We must suggest the people in what hatredHe still hath held them; that to's power he would Have made them mules, silenc'd their pleaders, andDispropertied their freedoms; holding them,In human action and capacity,Of no more soul nor fitness f Therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong; Therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat. Odd? bodikin, man, better: use every man after his desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty. City,'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heirOf these fair edifices 'fore my warsHave I heard groan and drop: then know me not. Why, then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind? ORLANDO. Why not, my lord? If then they chanc'd to slack ye, We could control them. The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard. No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess, Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow. The adverse winds, Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time To land his legions all as soon as I; His marches are expedient to this town, His forces strong, his soldiers confident. O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice To slander music any more than once. This is no place; this house is but a butchery; Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it. Patience unmov'd! no marvel though she pause: They can be meek that have no other cause. My affairsAre servanted to others: though I oweMy revenge properly, my remission liesIn Volscian breasts. In this, though Icannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be deniedbut I am a plain-dealing villain. Tell mee now in earnest, how came FalstaffesSword so hackt? Peto. Yes, if this present quality of warre,Indeed the instant action: a cause on foot,Liues so in hope: As in an early Spring,We see th' appearing buds, which to proue fruite,Hope giues not so much warrant, as DispaireThat Frosts will bite them. Who are the violets now That strew the green lap of the new come spring? AUMERLE. I have been with your father, and given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his Duchess willbe here with him this night. But know that I have to-night wooedMargaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero. I do not know what witchcraft's in him, butYour soldiers use him as the grace 'fore meat,Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;And you are darken'd in this action, sir,Even by your own. No, faith; she let it drop by negligence, And, to the advantage, I being here took't up. Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me. My fate cries out, And makes each petty artery in this body As hardy as the Nemean lion? nerve. Emilia, run you to the citadel, And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd! Will you go on? [Aside. O ioyfull day:I would not take a Knighthood for my Fortune Pist. You take my part from me, sir; I have the most cause to beglad of yours. Who's that that rings the bell?Diablo, ho! The town will rise. So please your Maiesty, I would I couldQuit all offences with as cleare excuse,As well as I am doubtlesse I can purgeMy selfe of many I am charg'd withall:Yet such extenuation let me begge,As in reproofe of many Tales deuis'd,Which oft the Eare of Great Let us seek out some desolate shade and thereWeep our sad bosoms empty. [aside] O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at the worst'? I am worse than e'er I was. Let it fall rather, though the fork invade The region of my heart! Be Kent unmannerly When Lear is mad. Even those you were wont to take such delight in,?he tragedians of the city. Let the king have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me with as much haste as thou wouldst fly death. Exeunt all Commoners. Ruth|Bates|Dre|none|Dustin|Hoffman|Dwight|Yoakam|Earth|Crisis|Ed|Templeton|Ed|Begley Jr|Eddie|Furlong|Eddie|Jackson|Eddie |Vedder |Edwin|Moses|Elizabeth|Burkley|Elvis|Costello|Emily|Deschanel|Emmylou|Harris|Eric |Stoltz |Erykah |Badu|Farin|Urlaub|Fiona| --My pretty cousin,Blessing upon you!LADY MACDUFF. Behold, I have a weapon; A better never did itself sustain Upon a soldier's thigh. I will disparage her no farther till you are mywitnesses. Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man; And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste, That it yields nought but shame and bitterness. Farewell, dear sister; farewell, my Lord of Gloucester. He was my friend, faithful and just to me; But Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man. Though you and all the kings of Christendom Are led so grossly by this meddling priest, Dreading the curse that money may buy out, And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust, Purchase corrupted pardon of a man, Who in that sale sells pardon from himself Who's there? Whose noise is this that cries on murther? LODOVICO. Cool it with a baboon's blood,Then the charm is firm and good. Is it possible Disdain should die while she hath suchmeet food to feed it as Signior Benedick? Courtesy itself mustconvert to disdain if you come in her presence. What? you are as a candle, the better part burnt out Fal. Enter Cornwall, Regan, and Attendants. Make me to see't; or at the least so prove it, That the probation bear no hinge nor loop To hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life! IAGO. Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at myhands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice. Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin; And they shall say when Richard me begot, If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin. Take thou no scorn to wear the horn; It was a crest ere thou wast born. Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slutwere to put good meat into an unclean dish. You, in the right of Lady Blanch your wife, May then make all the claim that Arthur did. I thinke I am as like to ride the Mare, if I haueany vantage of ground, to get vp Ch. Sir, my good friend; I?l change that name with you: And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio??Marcellus? Mar. What, man! there are ways to recover the general again. My lord, they say five moons were seen to-night; Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about The other four in wondrous motion. Exit servant Now, by mine honour, by my life, my troth, I will appeach the villain. Now Master Sherife, what is your will withmee? She. Indeed I thinke the yong King loues you not Ch. Then thus I turn me from my countrv's light, To dwell in solemn shades of endless night. --So we will home to Rome,And die among our neighbours. With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man thathath not the gout; for the one sleeps easily because he cannotstudy, and the other lives merrily because he feels no pain; the one lacking the burden of lean and wasteful learning, the other knowing no b Northumberland, thou ladder wherewithal The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne, The time shall not be many hours of age More than it is, ere foul sin gathering head Shall break into corruption. You talk of pride: O thatyou could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks, and makebut an interior survey of your good selves! O that you could!BOTH TRIBUNES. He went hence but now, And certainly in strange unquietness. It is myself I mean: in whom I knowAll the particulars of vice so graftedThat, when they shall be open'd, black MacbethWill seem as pure as snow; and the poor stateEsteem him as a lamb, being compar'dWith my confineless harms. Why, as a woodcock to my own springe, Osric; I am justly kill? with mine own treachery. Enter ROSALIND, reading a paper ROSALIND. Bleed, bleed, poor country!Great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure,For goodness dare not check thee! wear thou thy wrongs,The title is affeer'd. By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend me,and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous, if you break onejot of your promise, or come one minute behind your hour, I will think you the most pathetical break-promise, and the mosthollow lover,  Enter the Arch-bishop, Mowbray, Hastings, Westmerland,Coleuile. --Why did you bring these daggers from the place?They must lie there: go carry them; and smearThe sleepy grooms with blood. Time goes on crutches till love haveall his rites. She's lim'd, I warrant you! We have caught her, madam. Will you withdraw? Othelloretires. So yourface bids me, though you say nothing. It is not possible, it cannot be,The King would keepe his word in louing vs,He will suspect vs still, and finde a timeTo punish this offence in others faults:Supposition, all our liues, shall be stucke full of eyes;For Treason is but trusted like the FoxThere did this perjur'd goldsmith swear me down That I this day of him receiv'd the chain, Which, God he knows, I saw not; for the which He did arrest me with an officer. But, look you, Cassius, The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow, And all the rest look like a chidden train: Calpurnia's cheek is pale, and Cicero Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes As we have seen him in the Capitol, Being cross'd in conferen What must the King do now? Must he submit? The King shall do it. These high wild hills and rough uneven ways Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome; And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar, Making the hard way sweet and delectable. Noble Menenius,Be you then as the people's officer. O gods, ye gods! Must I endure all this? BRUTUS. Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style; A style for challengers. Further I will not flatter you, my lord, That all I see in you is worthy love, Than this: that nothing do I see in you Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge That I can find should merit any hate. He knows thy thought:Hear his speech, but say thou naught. The exhalations whizzing in the air Give so much light that I may read by them. Master, be wise; an if you give it her, The devil will shake her chain, and fright us with it. Is that the chain you promis'd me to-day?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. This is the sergeantWho, like a good and hardy soldier, fought'Gainst my captivity. Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he wouldnot. Cry the man mercy, love him, take his offer; Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer. What man was he talk'd with you yesternight, Out at your window betwixt twelve and one? Now, if you are a maid, answer to this. Thy spirit within thee hath beene so at Warre,And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleepe,That beds of sweate hath stood vpon thy Brow,Like bubbles in a late-disturbed Streame;And in thy face strange motions haue appear'd,Such as we see when men restraIn this the antique and well-noted face Of plain old form is much disfigured; And like a shifted wind unto a sail It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about, Startles and frights consideration, Makes sound opinion sick, and truth suspected, For putt Were it good, to set the exact wealth of all our statesAll at one Cast? To set so rich a mayneOn the nice hazard of one doubtfull houre,It were not good: for therein should we readeThe very Bottome, and the Soule of Hope,The very List, the very vtmost BoNow, banish'd Kent, If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd, So may it come, thy master, whom thou lov'st, Shall find thee full of labours. Hail, king, for so thou art: behold, where standsThe usurper's cursed head: the time is free:I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearlThat speak my salutation in their minds;Whose voices I desire aloud with mine,--Hail, King of Scotland!ALL. Come, come, you have been too rough, something too rough;You must return and mend it. Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too. Not very well; but I have met him oft; And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds That the old carlot once was master of. Lucilius, do you the like, and let no man Come to our tent till we have done our conference. We both obey, And here give up ourselves, in the full bent, To lay our service freely at your feet, To be commanded. Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss, That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd, To tell sad stories of my own mishaps. Exeunt severallySCENE VI. To brag unto them,--thus I did, and thus;--Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,As if I had receiv'd them for the hireOf their breath only!MENENIUS. Think, my lord? By heaven, he echoes me, As if there were some monster in his thought Too hideous to be shown. What was he that you followed with your sword? What had he done to you? CASSIO. This seen, Orlando did approach the man, And found it was his brother, his elder brother. Nay, but be wise; yet we see nothing done; She may be honest yet. I pray thee tell me trulyhow thou lik'st her. Some to Decius' house, andsome to Casca's, some to Ligarius'. Moreover, he hath left you all his walks, His private arbors, and new-planted orchards, On this side Tiber; he hath left them you, And to your heirs forevercommon pleasures, To walk abroad and recreate yourselves. Doe so:And those Musitians that shall play to you,Hang in the Ayre a thousand Leagues from thence;And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend Hotsp. Your belly's answer? What!The kingly crowned head, the vigilant eye,The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter,With other muniments and petty helpsIs this our fabric, if that they,--MENENIUS. Come, high or low;Thyself and office deftly show![Thunder. And as the Wretch, whose Feauer-weakned ioynts,Like strengthlesse Hindges, buckle vnder life,Impatient of his Fit, breakes like a fireOut of his keepers armes: Euen so, my Limbes(Weak'ned with greefe) being now inrag'd with greefe,Are thrice themselues. I do not shame To tell you what I was, since my conversion So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am. Prethee (Sir Iohn) let it be but twenty Nobles,I loath to pawne my Plate, in good earnest la Fal. Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so? PETER. [Sings] The god of love, That sits above And knows me, and knows me, How pitiful I deserve- I mean in singing; but in loving Leander the good swimmer, Troilus the first employer of panders, and a whole book fullof these quondam carpet-mongers, whose nam Let me see your eyes; Look in my face. Nay, forward, old man, do not break off so; For we may pity, though not pardon thee. All this amazement can I qualify, When, after that the holy rites are ended, I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death. What in the least Will you require in present dower with her, Or cease your quest of love? Bur. Wilt thou rob this Leatherne Ierkin, Christallbutton, Not-pated, Agat ring, Puke stocking, Caddicegarter, Smooth tongue, Spanish pouch Fran. Excuses shall not be admitted: there is no excuse shallserue: you shall not be excus'd. BesidesI ha' not since put up my sword Against the Capitol I met a lion, Who glaz'd upon me and went surly by Without annoying me. Besides, his cote, his flocks, and bounds of feed, Are now on sale; and at our sheepcote now, By reason of his absence, there is nothing That you will feed on; but what is, come see, And in my voice most welcome shall you be. Five hundred ducats, villain, for rope?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive sogood a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so indiscreet an officer. Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity So it be new, there's no respect how vile That is not quickly buzz'd into his ears? Then all too late comes counsel to be heard Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard. They met so near withtheir lips that their breaths embraced together. Thine eye begins to speak, set thy tongue there; Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear, That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce, Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse. Are his wits safe? Is he not light of brain? IAGO. I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder beforeyou came; for look here what I found on a palm-tree. I do repent; but heaven hath pleas? it so, To punish me with this, and this with me, That I must be their scourge and minister. My wife, not meanly proud of two such boys, Made daily motions for our home return; Unwilling, I agreed. Not to be married, Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton. The accusationWhich they have often made against the senate,All cause unborn, could never be the motiveOf our so frank donation. A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,And harsh in sound to thine. If then that friend demand why Brutus rose against Caesar, thisis my answer: Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I lovedRome more. I'd play incessantly upon these jades, Even till unfenced desolation Leave them as naked as the vulgar air. Some holy angelFly to the court of England, and unfoldHis message ere he come; that a swift blessingMay soon return to this our suffering countryUnder a hand accurs'd!LORD. The Duke is humorous; what he is, indeed, More suits you to conceive than I to speak of. It is spoke freely out of many mouths,--How probable I do not know,--that Marcius,Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,And vows revenge as spacious as betweenThe young'st and oldest thing. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! ? pour? a flagon of Rhenish on my head once. My soul doth tell me Hero is belied; And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince, And all of them that thus dishonour her. God-den to yourworships: more of your conversation would infect my brain, beingthe herdsmen of the beastly plebeians: I will be bold to take myleave of you. Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of SigniorLeonato? Bene. [Within] Who is that at the door, that keeps all thisnoise?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Hee was so forlorne, that his Dimensions (toany thicke sight) were inuincible. If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men-" So get thee gone; good night. Upon my life, by some device or other The villain is o'erraught of all my money. There, take my coxcomb! Why, this fellow hath banish'd twoon's daughters, and did the third a blessing against his will. We must be patient: but I cannot choose but weep, to think they would lay him i?the cold ground. It makes us, or it mars us; think on that, And fix most firm thy resolution. --Titus Lartius, thouShalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face. Hath Butler brought those horses fro[m] the Sheriffe? Ser. You mean to mock me after; you should not have mock'dme before; but come your ways. On Tuesday last,A falcon, towering in her pride of place,Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd. Mark, King of Scotland, mark:No sooner justice had, with valor arm'd,Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,But the Norweyan lord, surveying vantage,With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men,Began a fresh assault. God save the King! Will no man say amen? Am I both priest and clerk? Well then, amen. Nay, all of you that stand and look upon me Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself, Though some of you, with Pilate, wash your hands, Showing an outward pity-yet you Pilates Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross, And water cannot wash away your  I'll get me to a place more void and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along. TheseMoors are changeable in their willsfill thy purse with money. I thinke you are falne into the disease: For youheare not what I say to you Fal. And but for these vile Gunnes,He would himselfe haue beene a Souldier. Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward? Gent. There? ne?r a villain dwelling in all Denmark But he? an arrant knave. --There's no man in the worldMore bound to's mother; yet here he lets me prate Like one i' the stocks. But age, with his stealing steps, Hath claw? me in his clutch, And hath shipp? me intil the land, As if I had never been such. Read it not, noble lords;But tell the traitor, in the highest degreeHe hath abus'd your powers. That to provoke in him Are many simples operative, whose power Will close the eye of anguish. But fear not yetTo take upon you what is yours: you mayConvey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink. Would I could meet him, madam! I should show What party I do follow. And I pray thee now tellme, for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love withme? Beat. But beare me to that Chamber, there Ile lye:In that Ierusalem, shall Harry dye. You break jests as braggards do their blades, which God be thanked hurt not. Moe noble blows than ever thou wise words;And for Rome's good. Ah dear son Edgar, The food of thy abused father's wrath! Might I but live to see thee in my touch, I'ld say I had eyes again! Old Man. [Within] Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb,idiot, patch! Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch. Sir Iohn, thy tender Lamb-kinne, now is King,Harry the Fift's the man, I speake the truth. For Yours, may heauenly glory brighten it:For His, it stucke vpon him, as the SunneIn the gray vault of Heauen: and by his LightDid all the Cheualrie of England moueTo do braue Acts. I am amaz'd, methinks, and lose my way Among the thorns and dangers of this world. Assemble presently the people hither:And when they hear me say 'It shall be soI' the right and strength o' the commons,' be it eitherFor death, for fine, or banishment, then let them,If I say fine, cry 'Fine!'if death, cry 'Death;'Insisting on the old prBefore the eyes of both our armies here, Which should perceive nothing but love from us, Let us not wrangle. The custom of request you have discharg'd:The people do admit you; and are summon'dTo meet anon, upon your approbation. You may:But if he had beene a mans Taylor, he would haue prick'dyou. All's well, and might have been much better ifHe could have temporiz'd. I know thee not, old man: Fall to thy Prayers:How ill white haires become a Foole, and Iester?I haue long dream'd of such a kinde of man,So surfeit-swell'd, so old, and so prophane:But being awake, I do despise my dreame. His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us On every trifle. How brooks your Grace the air After your late tossing on the breaking seas? KING RICHARD. Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?COURTEZAN. Come, sir, what letters had you late from France? Reg. Nay, then, thus: We came into the world like brother and brother, And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another. Why there is it: Come, sing me a bawdy Song,make me merry; I was as vertuously giuen, as a Gentlemanneed to be; vertuous enough, swore little, dic'd notaboue seuen times a weeke, went to a Bawdy-house notaboue once in a quarter of an houre, payd Money t Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made, and the garland too; for the garland he might have worn himself, andthe rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, havestol'n his bird's nest. Seek out where thy father is, that he may be ready for our apprehension. Thou art so fat-witted with drinking of oldeSacke, and vnbuttoning thee after Supper, and sleepingvpon Benches in the afternoone, that thou hast forgottento demand that truely, which thou wouldest truly know. O heaven, that there were but a mote in yours, A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair, Any annoyance in that precious sense! Then, feeling what small things are boisterous there, Your vile intent must needs seem horrible. Why, how now, Dromio! Where run'st thou so fast?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm! It is hypocrisy against the devil. Those Prisoners in your Highnesse demanded,Which Harry Percy heere at Holmedon tooke,Were (as he sayes) not with such strength deniedAs was deliuered to your Maiesty:Who either through enuy, or misprision,Was guilty of this fault; and not my Sonne Hot. Alas, what need you be so boist'rous rough? I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still. Feare wee broad-sides? No, let the Fiend giue fire:Giue me some Sack: and Sweet-heart lye thou there:Come wee to full Points here, and are et cetera's nothing? Fal. O, no more, no more!You have said you will not grant us anything;For we have nothing else to ask but thatWhich you deny already: yet we will ask;That, if you fail in our request, the blameMay hang upon your hardness; therefore hear us. I am glad of it, for now I shall have reason To show the love and duty that I bear you With franker spirit. Rowze vppeReuenge from Ebon den, with fell Alecto's Snake, forDol is in. Now sit we close about this taper here, And call in question our necessities. I will resolue for Scotland: there am I,Till Time and Vantage craue my company. Ha? a Bastard Sonne of the Kings? And art notthou Poines, his Brother? Prince. Indeed? I heard it not: then draws near the season Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk. Boote,boote Master Shallow, I know the young King is sick formee. --[They fight, and certain Volsces come to the aid of AUFIDIUS. [To ARTHUR] For England, cousin, go; Hubert shall be your man, attend on you With all true duty. She is Pistoll-proofe (Sir) you shall hardly offendher Host. And our Indentures Tripartite are drawne:Which being sealed enterchangeably,(A Businesse that this Night may execute)To morrow, Cousin Percy, you and I,And my good Lord of Worcester, will set forth,To meete your Father, and the Scottish Power,As is appoi'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her; And out of you she sees herself more proper Than any of her lineaments can show her. [QUEEN and LADIES retire] GARDENER. Butthat the Tennis-Court-keeper knowes better then I, forit is a low ebbe of Linnen with thee, when thou kept'stnot Racket there, as thou hast not done a great while, becausethe rest of thy Low Countries, haue made a shift toeate vp thy Holland Poin. Where is Metellus Cimber? Let him And presently prefer his suit to Caesar. Ah, that good Kent! He said it would be thuspoor banish'd man! Thou say'st the King grows mad: I'll tell thee, friend, I am almost mad myself. With robber's hands my hospitable favours You should not ruffle thus. Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. Cousin, farewell; what presence must not know, From where you do remain let paper show. But this same day Must end that work the ides of March begun. Enter [Oswald the] Steward. Ere it be demanded As like enough it willI'ld have it copied. Enter the BASTARD BASTARD. Enter, at one side,COMINIUS and Romans; at the other side, MARCIUS, with his armin a scarf, and other Romans. Cicero is dead, And by that order of proscription. My Friends, and Brethren (in these great Affaires)I must acquaint you, that I haue receiu'dNew-dated Letters from Northumberland:Their cold intent, tenure, and substance thus. You should not have believ? me; for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it: I loved you not. Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress'sbrother. A document in madness,?houghts and remembrance fitted. If you shall send them word you will not come, Their minds may change. Then art thou damn'd for keeping thy word withthe diuell Prin. No, my good Lord, banish Peto, banishBardolph, banish Poines: but for sweete Iacke Falstaffe,kinde Iacke Falstaffe, true Iacke Falstaffe, valiant Iacke Falstaffe,and therefore more valiant, being as hee is olde IackFalstaffe, banish not him thy Harryes  Ha! what shout is this?Shall I be tempted to infringe my vowIn the same time 'tis made? I will not. Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war, Plead for our interest and our being here. Be comforted:Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,To cure this deadly grief. My bones bear witness, That since have felt the vigour of his rage. And now dispatch we toward the Court (my Lords)I heare the King, my Father, is sore sicke. Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the fool hath much pined away. Euen such a man, so faint, so spiritlesse,So dull, so dead in looke, so woe-be-gone,Drew Priams Curtaine, in the dead of night,And would haue told him, Halfe his Troy was burn'd. But yet my caution was more pertinentThan the rebuke you give it. Somuch was his pleasure should be proclaimed. O, name him not; let us not break with him, For he will never follow anything That other men begin. Who's there, i' the name of Belzebub? Here's a farmer that hangedhimself on the expectation of plenty: come in time; have napkinsenow about you; here you'll sweat for't. And, noble Dauphin, albeit we swear A voluntary zeal and an unurg'd faith To your proceedings; yet, believe me, Prince, I am not glad that such a sore of time Should seek a plaster by contemn'd revolt, And heal the inveterate canker of one wound By maki Thither I must, although against my will, For servants must their masters' minds fulfil. I would have sworn it had, my lord--especially against Benedick. What doth Grauitie out of his Bed at Midnight?Shall I giue him his answere? Prin. Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE ROSALIND. Didst thou neuer see Titan kisse a dish of Butter,pittifull hearted Titan that melted at the sweete Tale ofthe Sunne? If thou didst, then behold that compound Fal. I will not be swornbut love may transform me to an oyster; but I'll take my oath onit, till he have made an oyster of me he shall never make me sucha fool. I should not urge thy duty past thy might; I know young bloods look for a time of rest. A second time I kill my husband dead When second husband kisses me in bed. He does well to commend it himself; there are no tongues else for? turn. I am wak'd with it when I sleep; rais'd with it when I sit; driven out of doors with it when I go from home; welcom'd home with it when I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders as beggar wont her brat; and I think, when he hath lam'd me, I shall beg wit It was my breath that blew this tempest up, Upon your stubborn usage of the Pope; But since you are a gentle convertite, My tongue shall hush again this storm of war And make fair weather in your blust'ring land. Mere prattle without practice Is all his soldiership. The Sherife and all the Watch are at thedoore: they are come to search the House, shall I letthem in? Falst. Dismay'd not thisOur captains, Macbeth and Banquo?SOLDIER. Though there the people had more absolute power,--I say they nourish'd disobedience, fedThe ruin of the state. Come, mourn with me for what I do lament, And put on sullen black incontinent. This is pity now, That hang'd and drawn and quarter'd there should be In such a love so vile a lout as he. I pray you, bring me on the way a little, And say if I shall see you soon at night. My King, my Ioue; I speake to thee, my heart King. As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb,and the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling. Who is it like should lead his Forces hither? Hast. Are there not stones in heaven But what serve for thunder? Precious villain! He runs at Iago, butMontano disarms him. What, stand'st thou idle here? Lend me thy sword,Many a Nobleman lies starke and stiffeVnder the hooues of vaunting enemies,Whose deaths are vnreueng'd. My Lord, hee will driue you out of your reuenge,and turne all to a merryment, if you take not theheat Prince. Though it be pity to see such a sight, it wellbecomes the ground. What art thou that dost grumble there i' th' straw? Come forth. How sweetly you do minister to love, That know love's grief by his complexion! But lest my liking might too sudden seem, I would have salv'd it with a longer treatise. Why, what should be the fear? I do not set my life at a pin? fee; And for my soul, what can it do to that, Being a thing immortal as itself ? It waves me forth again;??l follow it. List a brief tale; And when 'tis told, O that my heart would burst! The bloody proclamation to escape That follow'd me so near (O, our lives' sweetness! That with the pain of death would hourly die Rather than die at once!) taught me to shift Into a mad You have the captives Who were the opposites of this day's strife. [Gives back the crown] Take again From this my hand, as holding of the Pope, Your sovereign greatness and authority. What fashion will you wear the garland of? about your neck, likean usurer's chain? or under your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf?You must wear it one way, for the Prince hath got your Hero. I am good Friends with my Father, and may doanything Fal. Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place; knockingout his brains. Yes, presently: Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin, For to deny each article with oath Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception That I do groan withal. My bed was ever to thy son as true As thine was to thy husband; and this boy Liker in feature to his father Geffrey Than thou and John in manners-being as Eke As rain to water, or devil to his dam. Pardon me, madam; little joy have To breathe this news; yet what I say is true. Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is new-crept into a lutestring, and now govern'd by stops. Heere I promist you I would be, and heere Icommit my Bodieto your Mercies: Bate me some, and I will pay you some, and (asmost Debtors dpromise you infinitely. My will, not all the world: And for my means, I?l husband them so well, They shall go far with little. O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock, To lip a wanton in a secure couch, And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know, And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be. Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health, He would embrace the means to come by it. He will not be commanded: here's another,More potent than the first. O my sweet, I prattle out of fashion, and I dote In mine own comforts. Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day Men of great worth resorted to this forest, Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot, In his own conduct, purposely to take His brother here, and put him to the sword; And to the skirts of this wild wood he For thy part, Claudio, I did think to have beaten thee; butin that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruis'd, and lovemy cousin. Is it the fashion that discarded fathers Should have thus little mercy on their flesh? Judicious punishment! 'Twas this flesh begot Those pelican daughters. Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me? STRATO. O you kind gods, Cure this great breach in his abused nature! Th' untun'd and jarring senses, O, wind up Of this child-changed father! Doct. He is about it:The doors are open; and the surfeited groomsDo mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd their possetsThat death and nature do contend about them,Whether they live or die. Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind, I see thy glory like a shooting star Fall to the base earth from the firmament! The sun sets weeping in the lowly west, Witnessing storms to come, woe, and unrest; Thy friends are fled, to wait upon thy foes; An No, thy words are too precious to be cast away uponcurs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons. The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices Make instruments to scourge us. Heat me these irons hot; and look thou stand Within the arras. He was-why so go all which way it will! The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side. To morrow, good Sir Michell, is a day,Wherein the fortune of ten thousand menMust bide the touch. Why either were you ignorant to see't?Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness To yield your voices?BRUTUS. It seem'd she was a queen Over her passion, who, most rebel-like, Sought to be king o'er her. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide mein the arbour. He hath a person and a smooth dispose To be suspectedframed to make women false. He hath been out nine years, and away he shall again. I am accurst to rob in that Theefe company: thatRascall hath remoued my Horse, and tied him I know notwhere. Then, if we lose this battle, You are contented to be led in triumph Thorough the streets of Rome? BRUTUS. Niece, will you look to those things I told you of? Beat. All the power of his wits have given way to hisimpatience. Here, father, take the shadow of this tree For your good host. If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of Caesar's,to him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his. I doubt some danger does approach you nearly:If you will take a homely man's advice,Be not found here; hence, with your little ones. Not so sick, my lord,As she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,That keep her from her rest. Sure he that made us with such large discourse, Looking before and after, gave us not That capability and godlike reason To fust in us unus?. O Regan, she hath tied Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here! [Lays his hand on his heart. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind? ORLANDO. Should dying men flatter with those that live? GAUNT. Lord Marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand, And bow my knee before his Majesty; For Mowbray and myself are like two men That vow a long and weary pilgrimage. Sir, those cold ways,That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonousWhere the disease is violent. Heare me, my Liege:For mine owne part, I could be well contentTo entertaine the Lagge-end of my lifeWith quiet houres: For I do protest,I haue not sought the day of this dislike King. It is a creature That dotes on Cassio, as 'tis the strumpet's plague To beguile many and be beguiled by one. Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death I spy life peering; but I dare not say How near the tidings of our comfort is. The one the other poisoned for my sake, And after slew herself. 'Tis so; and that self chain about his neck Which he forswore most monstrously to have. O ye immortal gods! Re-enter Lucius, with wine and taper. Think you I am no stronger than my sex, Being so father'd and so husbanded? Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em. Therefore heaven Nature charg'd That one body should be fill'd With all graces wide-enlarg'd. There will I leave you too,for here comes one in haste. How prove you that, in the great heap of your knowledge? ROSALIND. Yea, and to tickle our Noses with Spear-grasse,to make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garmentswith it, and sweare it was the blood of true men. O, if thou teach me to believe this sorrow, Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die; And let belief and life encounter so As doth the fury of two desperate men Which in the very meeting fall and die! Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou? Fra Patience once more, whiles our compact is urg'd: You say, if I bring in your Rosalind, You will bestow her on Orlando here? DUKE SENIOR. Who shall ask it?The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the peopleDeserve such pity of him as the wolfDoes of the shepherds: for his best friends, if theyShould say 'Be good to Rome,' they charg'd him even As those should do that had deserv'd his hate,And tThis is it, Adam, that grieves me; and the spiritof my father, which I think is within me, begins to mutinyagainst this servitude. Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;For though abundantly they lack discretion,Yet are they passing cowardly. God knows I lov'd my niece, And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains, That dare as well answer a man indeed As I dare take a serpent by the tongue. Cassius, go you into the other street And part the numbers. Thus have I yielded up into your hand The circle of my glory. But, I remember when the fight was done,When I was dry with Rage, and extreame Toyle,Breathlesse, and Faint, leaning vpon my Sword,Came there a certaine Lord, neat and trimly drest;Fresh as a Bride-groome, and his Chin new reapt,Shew'd like a stubble LanShall I be charg'd no further than this present?Must all determine here?SICINIUS. Well, every one can master a grief but he that has it. Ay, if I be alive, and your mind hold, and your dinnerworth the eating. Is not the Lady Constance in this troop? I know she is not; for this match made up Her presence would have interrupted much. Now by Apollo, King, Thou swear'st thy gods in vain. But harke yee,What cunning match haue you made this iest of theDrawer? Come, what's the issue? Prin. One cried, "God bless us!" and, "Amen," the other;As they had seen me with these hangman's hands. Why, a Prince should not be so loosely studied,as to remember so weake a Composition Prince. Come, sir, I would you would make use of that good wisdom Whereof I know you are fraught, and put away These dispositions that of late transform you From what you rightly are. No, truly, not; although, until last night, I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow Leon. Disrobe the images If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies. Now, say, Chatillon, what would France with us? CHATILLON. Ere you flout old ends any further,examine your conscience. Worthy tribunes,There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,Reports,--the Volsces with several powers Are enter'd in the Roman territories,And with the deepest malice of the warDestroy what lies before 'em. Now he importunes him To tell it o'er. Young man, have you challeng'd Charles the wrestler? ORLANDO. A Kings Sonne? If I do not beate thee out of thyKingdome with a dagger of Lath, and driue all thy Subiectsafore thee like a flocke of Wilde-geese, Ile neuerweare haire on my face more. Every one hears that Which can distinguish sound. O, answer not; but to my closet bring The angry lords with all expedient haste. If you do sorrow at my grief in love, By giving love, your sorrow and my grief Were both extermin'd. O King, believe not this hard-hearted man! Love loving not itself, none other can. Do you believe his tenders, as you call them? Oph. Enter the King, Prince of Wales, Lord Iohn of Lancaster, Earle ofWestmerland, Sir Walter Blunt, and Falstaffe. 'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a circle. What he will do with it Heaven knows, not I; I nothing but to please his fantasy. Look to the lady:--[Lady Macbeth is carried out. Think not I love him, though I ask for him; 'Tis but a peevish boy; yet he talks well. Cry woe, destruction, ruin, and decay The worst is death, and death will have his day. What, wilt thou flout me thus unto myface, Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave. I took no more pains for those thanks than you take painsto thank me. 55 Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz: And I beseech you instantly to visit My too-much-changed son. And, sir, tonight, I do entreat that we may sup together. Why, what an intricate impeach is this! I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup. All form is formless, order orderless, Save what is opposite to England's love. How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia! I am ashamed I did yield to them. Good ground, be pitiful and hurt me not! There's few or none do know me; if they did, This ship-boy's semblance hath disguis'd me quite. The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes Cordelia leaves you. There had she not been long but she became A joyful mother of two goodly sons; And, which was strange, the one so like the other As could not be disdnguish'd but by names. I will owe thee an answer for that; and now forward withthy tale. Griev'd I, I had but one? Child I for that at frugal nature's frame? O, one too much by thee! Why had I one? Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes? Why had I not with charitable hand Took up a beggar's issue at my gates, Who smirched thus and mir'd with  If you will marry, make your loves to me; My lady is bespoke. Nay, how will you do for a husband?LADY MACDUFF. As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad; And his unbookish jealousy must construe Poor Cassio's smiles, gestures, and light behavior Quite in the wrong. There's not one wiseman among twenty, that will praise himself. Then his good report should have been my son; I therein would have found issue. Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing; 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands; But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed. If I do send, despatchThose centuries to our aid; the rest will serveFor a short holding: if we lose the fieldWe cannot keep the town. Thou art vniust man in saying so; thou, or anieman knowes where to haue me, thou knaue thou Prince. Not Cassio kill'd! Then murther's out of tune, And sweet revenge grows harsh. Away, and glister like the god of war When he intendeth to become the field; Show boldness and aspiring confidence. This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is the duke? name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see anon; ?is a knavish piece of work: but what o?that? your ma jesty, and we that have free souls, it touches us not: let the gall? jade wince;  Who comes here? What news, Borachio? Bora. O, how the channel to the stream gave grace! Who glazed with crystal gate the glowing roses That flame through water which their hue encloses. [Aside] O prudent discipline! From north to south, Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth. Is there any harm in 'the heavier for ahusband'? None, I think, an it be the right husband and the right wife. What, shall they seek the lion in his den, And fright him there, and make him tremble there? O, let it not be said! Forage, and run To meet displeasure farther from the doors And grapple with him ere he come so nigh. Why, because you haue beene so lewde, and somuch ingraffed to Falstaffe Prin. Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charg'd at peril Corn. Cheerely My Lord: how fare's your Grace?Sir Nicolas Gawsey hath for succour sent,And so hath Clifton: Ile to Clifton straight King. The sullen passage of thy weary steps Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set The precious jewel of thy home return. Madam, by chance, but not by truth; what though? Something about, a little from the right, In at the window, or else o'er the hatch; Who dares not stir by day must walk by night; And have is have, however men do catch. If he, compact of jars, grow musical, We shall have shortly discord in the spheres. I'll tell thee what, Prince: a college of wit-crackerscannot flout me out of my humour. Their spirits areso married in Coniunction, with the participation of Society,that they flocke together in consent, like so manyWilde-Geese. O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits! TOUCHSTONE. Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault, Assemble all the poor men of your sort, Draw them to Tiber banks, and weep your tears Into the channel, till the lowest stream Do kiss the most exalted shores of all. All studies heere I solemnly defie,Saue how to gall and pinch this Bullingbrooke,And that same Sword and Buckler Prince of Wales. I hope no lesse? Yet needfull 'tis to feare,And to preuent the worst, Sir Michell speed;For if Lord Percy thriue not, ere the KingDismisse his power, he meanes to visit vs:For he hath heard of our Confederacie,And, 'tis but Wisedome to make strong again Say you ne'er had done't,--Harp on that still,--but by our putting on:And presently when you have drawn your number,Repair to the Capitol. O, let thy vow First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd, That is, to be the champion of our Church. Andtell mee now, thou naughtie Varlet, tell mee, where hastthou beene this moneth? Prin. Yea, for obtaining of suites, whereof the Hangmanhath no leane Wardrobe. Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth Have any resting for her true King's queen. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceiveOur bosom interest:--go pronounce his present death,And with his former title greet Macbeth. What's more to do,Which would be planted newly with the time,--As calling home our exil'd friends abroad,That fled the snares of watchful tyranny;Producing forth the cruel ministersOf this dead butcher, and his fiend-like queen,--Who, as 'tis thought, b Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy: This wide and universal theatre Presents more woeful pageants than the scene Wherein we play in. The King himselfe is to bee feared as the Lyon:Do'st thou thinke Ile feare thee, as I feare thy Father? nayif I do, let my Girdle breake Prin. This fever that hath troubled me so long Lies heavy on me. What tell'st thou me of robbing? This is Venice; My house is not a grange. Love! his affections do not that way tend; Nor what he spake, though it lack? form a little, Was not like madness. Speak, old Aegeon, if thou be'st the man That hadst a wife once call'd Aemilia, That bore thee at a burden two fair sons. Know the gallant monarch is in arms And like an eagle o'er his aery tow'rs To souse annoyance that comes near his nest. Our house (my Soueraigne Liege) little deseruesThe scourge of greatnesse to be vsed on it,And that same greatnesse too, which our owne handsHaue holpe to make so portly Nor. And when it breaks, I fear will issue thence The foul corruption of a sweet child's death. Am I so round with you, as you with me, That like a football you do spurn me thus? You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither; If I last in this service, you must case me in leather. You have obedience scanted, And well are worth the want that you have wanted. Friends both, go join you with some further aid: Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain, And from his mother? closet hath he dragg? him: Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body Into the chapel. No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest of my servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most dreadfully attended. Die men, like Dogges; giue Crownes like Pinnes:Haue we not Hiren here? Host. We will begin these rites, As we do trust they'll end, in true delights. What foolish Master taught you these manners,Sir Iohn? Fal. They all cry 'Marcius, Marcius!', cast up theircaps and lances. ' For yourbrother and my sister no sooner met but they look'd; no sooner look'dbut they lov'd; no sooner lov'd but they sigh'd; no sooner sigh'dbut they ask'd one another the reason; no sooner knew the reasonbut they sought the remedyand in these degreesSo I did, Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal Hoping it was but an effect of humor, Which sometime hath his hour with every man. Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her! Bene. Larded all with sweet flowers; Which bewept to the grave did go With true-love showers. 'O, that infected moisture of his eye, O, that false fire which in his cheek so glowed, O, that forced thunder from his heart did fly, O, that sad breath his spongy lungs bestowed, O, all that borrowed motion, seeming owed, Would yet again betray the fo Sweare me, Kate, like a Lady, as thou art,A good mouth-filling Oath: and leaue in sooth,And such protest of Pepper Ginger-bread,To Veluet-Guards, and Sunday-Citizens. Sing it; 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it makenoise enough. I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so. As proper men as ever trod upon neat's leather have gone upon my handiwork. Why, after I have cut the egg i' th' middle and eat upthe meat, the two crowns of the egg. Dost thou prate, rogue? StrikesRoderigo. No, that's certaine: I am not a double man: butif I be not Iacke Falstaffe, then am I a Iacke: There is Percy,if your Father will do me any Honor, so: if not, let himkill the next Percie himselfe. We from the west will send destruction Into this city's bosom. How now? interjections? Why then, some be of laughing,as, ah, ha, he! Claud. I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel your blows. I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind; for,I protest, her frown might kill me. Sir, heere comes the Nobleman that committedthe Prince for striking him, about Bardolfe Fal. O, I could weep My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger, And here my naked breast; within, a heart Dearer than Pluto's mine, richer than gold. I fear the trust Othello puts him in On some odd time of his infirmity Will shake this island. Who comes here? O heavens! If you do love old men, if your sweet sway Allow obedienceif yourselves are old, Make it your cause! Send down, and take my part! [To Goneril] Art not asham'd to look upon this beard? O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand? GoMy lord, as I was sewing in my chamber, Lord Hamlet,?ith his doublet all unbrac?; No hat upon his head; his stockings foul?, Ungart?ed, and down-gyved to his ankle; Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other; And with a look so piteous in purport  What is it that they do When they change us for others? Is it sport? I think it is. I found it thrown in at the casement of my closet. Let us be conjunctive inour revenge against him. Thou hast not half that power to do me harm As I have to be hurt. Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras, Holding a weak supposal of our worth, Or thinking by our late dear brother? death Our state to be disjoint and out of frame, Colleagued with this dream of his advantage, He hath not fail? to pester us with m Philip of France, if thou be pleas'd withal, Command thy son and daughter to join hands. Away you Scullion, you Rampallian, you Fustillirian:Ile tucke your Catastrophe. Most royal Majesty, I crave no more than hath your Highness offer'd, Nor will you tender less. Will you walk, sir? ODesdemona DESDEMONA. But wherefore did hee take away the Crowne?Enter Prince Henry. Direct me, if it be your will,Where great Aufidius lies; is he in Antium?CITIZEN. Help Marcius, help,You that be noble; help him, young and old!CITIZENS. Is't possible that on so little acquaintance youshould like her? that but seeing you should love her? and lovingwoo? and, wooing, she should grant? and will you persever to enjoy her? OLIVER. This to hear Would Desdemona seriously incline; But still the house affairs would draw her thence, Which ever as she could with haste dispatch, She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear Devour up my discourse; which I observing, Took once a pliant hour,  But what neede I thusMy well-knowne Body to AnathomizeAmong my houshold? Why is Rumour heere?I run before King Harries victory,Who in a bloodie field by ShrewsburieHath beaten downe yong Hotspurre, and his Troopes,Quenching the flame of bold Rebellion,E I would not be thy executioner; I fly thee, for I would not injure thee. Go with me to it, and I'll show it you; and, by theway, you shall tell me where in the forest you live. Lady, shall I lie in your lap? [Lying down at Ophelia? feet. Have you nothing said Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany? Advise yourself. Did you by indirect and forced courses Subdue and poison this young maid's affections? Or came it by request, and such fair question As soul to soul affordeth? OTHELLO. Thou say'st true: the Prince once set a Dishof Apple-Iohns before him, and told him there were fiuemore Sir Iohns: and, putting off his Hat, said, I will nowtake my leaue of these sixe drie, round, old-wither'dKnights. If again it was not wellcut, he would answer I spake not true. But what is your affair in Elsinore? We?l teach you to drink deep ere you depart. In heaven: send thither to see: if your messenger find him not there, seek him i?the other place yourself. I am no thing to thanke heauen on, I wold thoushouldst know it: I am an honest mans wife: and settingthy Knighthood aside, thou art a knaue to call me so Falst. --There's no such thing:It is the bloody business which informsThus to mine eyes. But let me tell the World,If he out-liue the enuie of this day,England did neuer owe so sweet a hope,So much misconstrued in his Wantonnesse, Hot. Sir, his stoutnessWhen he did stand for consul, which he lostBy lack of stooping,- AUFIDIUS. O, insupportable! O heavy hour! Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe Should yawn at alteration. I will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me Iam a drunkard! Had I as many mouths as Hydra, such an answer would stop them all. With you, goodman boy, an you please! Come, I'll fleshye! Come on, young master! Glou. Wast not to this end That thou began'st to twist so fine a story? Claud. Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son? No, indeed, ist not; and I would to heaven I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert. ' Anon, a careless herd, Full of the pasture, jumps along by him And never stays to greet him. I would bee sorry (my Lord) but it should beethus: I neuer knew yet, but rebuke and checke was thereward of Valour. He says thou told'st him that his wife was false; I know thou didst not, thou'rt not such a villain. Out you mad-headed Ape, a Weazell hath notsuch a deale of Spleene, as you are tost with. For them all together, which maintain'd so politic astate of evil that they will not admit any good part to interminglewith them. But though thou art adjudged to the death, And passed sentence may not be recall'd But to our honour's great disparagement, Yet will I favour thee in what I can. If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth Prin. When we needYour vse and counsell, we shall send for you. He was (indeed) the GlasseWherein the Noble-Youth did dresse themselues. Your castle is surpris'd; your wife and babesSavagely slaughter'd: to relate the mannerWere, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,To add the death of you. Marry, sir, here? my drift; And I believe it is a fetch of warrant: You laying these slight sullies on my son As ?were a thing a little soil? i?the working, Mark you, Your party in converse, him you would sound, Having ever seen in the prenominate crime Your nobles will not hear you, but are gone To offer service to your enemy; And wild amazement hurries up and down The little number of your doubtful friends. Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer'd iron? An if an angel should have come to me And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes, I would not have believ'd him-no tongue but Hubert's. Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself And you of her, the bloody book of law You shall yourself read in the bitter letter After your own sense, yea, though our proper son Stood in your action. As it were, to ride day and night,And not to deliberate, not to remember,Not to haue patience to shift me Shal. Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me;yet, if you be out, sir, I can mend you. Why, masters, have your instruments been in Naples, that they speak i' the nose thus? FIRST MUSICIAN. The enemy, marching along by them, By them shall make a fuller number up, Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged; From which advantage shall we cut him off If at Philippi we do face him there, These people at our back. I am your shadow, my Lord, Ile follow you Prin. Be it knowne to you (as it is verywell) I was lately heere in the end of a displeasing Play, to prayyourPatien for it, and to promise you a Better: I did meane (indeede) topay you withthi which if (like an ill Venture) it come vnluckily home, I breake;a Wel, heauen send the Prince a better companion Fal. Why, noble lords,Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,'Fore your own eyes and ears?CONSPIRATORS. I will makemuch of your voices, and so trouble you no further. And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I; Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus! Exit. So, fare ye well: Upon the platform, ?wixt eleven and twelve, I?l visit you. The gods reward your kindness! Exit [Gloucester]. I thinke you are Sir Iohn Falstaffe, & in that thoughtyeeld me Fal. Save me and hover o?r me with your wings, You heavenly guards!?hat would your gracious figure? Queen. He was: I heard the Proclamation,And then it was, when the vnhappy King(Whose wrongs in vs God pardon) did set forthVpon his Irish Expedition:From whence he intercepted, did returneTo be depos'd, and shortly murthered Wor. Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs; Make dust our paper, and with rainy eyes Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth. It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a Rosalind ofa better leer than you. Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks, Which, like unruly children, make their sire Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight; Give some supportance to the bending twigs. O, is this he? The time will not allow the compliment That very manners urges. Give me your pardon, sir: I have done you wrong:154 But pardon?, as you are a gentleman. Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life, How happy then were my ensuing death! Enter KING and QUEEN, AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT, Ross, and WILLOUGHBY YORK. O appetite, from judgement stand aloof! The one a palate hath that needs will taste, Though Reason weep, and cry it is thy last. I'ld have thee live, For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die. I lay with Cassio lately And, being troubled with a raging tooth, I could not sleep. Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus, Is it excepted I should know no secrets That appertain to you? Am I yourself But, as it were, in sort or limitation, To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed, And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the I am the sorrier, would 'twere otherwise Cla. The blood weepes from my heart, when I doe shape(In formes imaginarie) th' vnguided Dayes,And rotten Times, that you shall looke vpon,When I am sleeping with my Ancestors. But tell me Hal, artnot thou horrible afear'd? thou being Heire apparant,could the World picke thee out three such Enemyes againe,as that Fiend Dowglas, that Spirit Percy, and thatDeuill Glendower? Art not thou horrible afraid? Dothnot thy blood thrill  Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this. Go and commend me to my brother Cassius; Bid him set on his powers betimes before, And we will follow. O Marcius, Marcius!Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heartA root of ancient envy. I will teach you how to humour your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; andI, [to Leonato and Claudio] with your two helps, will sopractise on Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he shall fall in love with B Marry, heaven forbid! Light, gentlemen; I'll bind it with my shirt. I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make himeat it that says I love not you. Enter, and pass over, a Sewer and diversServants with dishes and service. Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray? BOLINGBROKE. I was hardly moved to cometo thee; but being assured none but myself could move thee, Ihave been blown out of your gates with sighs; and conjure thee topardon Rome and thy petitionary countrymen. Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy; And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother, Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd. Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. And have not we affections, Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have? Then let them use us well; else let them know, The ills we do, their ills instruct us so. My Lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days And hardly kept our countrymen together, And yet we hear no tidings from the King; Therefore we will disperse ourselves. But do not look for further recompense Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd. And know it now, the Senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar. Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago, If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear A stranger to thy thoughts. O my poor Rosalind! Whither wilt thou go? Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine. Come, come, you Paraquito, answer me directlyvnto this question, that I shall aske. How dost thou mean a fat marriage?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Now I'll stand to it, the pancakes were naught and themustard was good, and yet was not the knight forsworn. It came even from the heart ofO! she's dead! Alb. Ibeseech you, good Sir Iohn, let mee haue fiue hundred ofmy thousand Fal. Austria's head lie there, While Philip breathes. What thou wouldst highly,That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,And yet wouldst wrongly win: thou'dst have, great Glamis,That which cries, "Thus thou must do, if thou have it:And that which rather thou dost fear to doThan wishest should be und You were sent for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties have not craft enough to colour: I know the good king and queen have sent for you. Ile see her damn'd first: to Pluto's damn'd Lake,to the Infernall Deepe, where Erebus and Tortures vildealso. My gracious Liege:You wonne it, wore it: kept it, gaue it me,Then plaine and right must my possession be;Which I, with more, then with a Common paine,'Gainst all the World, will rightfully maintaine. Before Emilia here I give thee warrant of thy place, assure thee, If I do vow a friendship, I'll perform it To the last article. What is like thee? You Tailors yard, you sheathyou Bow-case, you vile standing tucke Prin. 'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream. They never meet butthere's a skirmish of wit between them. If you have any music that may not be heard, to't again; but, as they say, to hear music the general does not greatly care. An if thou hast the mettle of a king, Being wrong'd as we are by this peevish town, Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery, As we will ours, against these saucy walls; And when that we have dash'd them to the ground, Why then defy each other, and pell-mel No way but this, Killing myself, to die upon a kiss. What, fifty followers? Is it not well? What should you need of more? Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger Speak 'gainst so great a number? How in one house Should many people, under two commands, Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible. Ruth?Bates?Dre?none?Dustin?Hoffman?Dwight?Yoakam?Earth?Crisis?Ed?Templeton?Ed?Begley Jr?Eddie?Furlong?Eddie?Jackson?Eddie?Vedder?Edwin?Moses?Elizabeth?Burkley?Elvis?Costello?Emily?Deschanel?Emmylou?Harris?Eric?Stoltz?Erykah?Badu?Farin?Urlaub?Fiona?Apple Who didst thou leave to tend his Majesty? HUBERT. Idle old man, That still would manage those authorities That he hath given away! Now, by my life, Old fools are babes again, and must be us'd With checks as flatteries, when they are seen abus'd. Come what come may,Time and the hour runs through the roughest day. I would not there reside To put my father in impatient thoughts By being in his eye. Then would to God that I had never seen't! OTHELLO. The colour of the King doth come and go Between his purpose and his conscience, Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set. Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a woman-one that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me. I am doubtful that you have been conjunct And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers. What would you have? Your gentleness shall force More than your force move us to gentleness. Cassius, be content, Speak your griefs softly, I do know you well. Be not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?ROSS. I will be flesh and blood; For there was never yet philosopher That could endure the toothache patiently, However they have writ the style of gods And made a push at chance and sufferance. Why, my good Lord, you need not feare,There is Dowglas, and Lord Mortimer Arch. I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts. And can he be angry? Something of moment then. Now sit downe, now sit downe: ComeCosin Sil. The plainer dealer, the sooner lost; yet he loseth it in a kind of jollity. Not knowing what they fear, but full of fear; And here's a prophet that I brought with me From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found With many hundreds treading on his heels; To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes, That, ere the next Ascens My point and period will be throughly wrought, Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought. Whether I must, I must: and to conclude,This Euening must I leaue thee, gentle Kate. I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:To you they have show'd some truth. Time enough to goe to bed with a Candle, Iwarrant thee. This bitter taste yeelds his engrossements,To the ending Father. That song tonight Will not go from my mind; I have much to do But to go hang my head all at one side And sing it like poor Barbary. How now my Lord of Worster? 'Tis not wellThat you and I should meet vpon such tearmes,As now we meet. Re-enter the ABBESS, with ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OFSYRACUSEABBESS. Keep peace, upon your lives! He dies that strikes again. Ha, majesty! how high thy glory tow'rs When the rich blood of kings is set on fire! O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel; The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs; And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men, In undetermin'd differenc Madam, what should I do? Run to the Capitol, and nothing else? And so return to you, and nothing else? PORTIA. What is this?Your knees to me? to your corrected son?Then let the pebbles on the hungry beachFillip the stars; then let the mutinous windsStrike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun,;Murdering impossibility, to makeWhat cannot be, slight work. No, sir, their hats are pluck'd about their ears, And half their faces buried in their cloaks, That by no means I may discover them By any mark of favor. I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for something. Their battles are at hand; They mean to warn us at Philippi here, Answering before we do demand of them. They durst not do't; They would not, could not do't. Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock: anddrink, sir, is a great provoker of three things. Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause, Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so. Her worth, being mounted on the wind, Through all the world bears Rosalinde. ?o the celestial, and my soul? idol, the most beautified Ophelia,? That? an ill phrase, a vile phrase; ?eautified?is a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Fame, at the which he aims,--In whom already he is well grac'd,--cannotBetter be held, nor more attain'd, than byA place below the first: for what miscarriesShall be the general's fault, though he performTo th' utmost of a man; and giddy censureWill thenIf the youngDace be a Bayt for the old Pike, I see no reason, in theLaw of Nature, but I may snap at him. Amen to that, sweet powers! I cannot speak enough of this content; It stops me here; it is too much of joy. Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies, Or my sham'd life in his dishonour lies. Stoop, Romans, stoop, And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords; Then walk we forth, even to the marketplace, And waving our red weapons o'er our heads, Let's all cry, "Peace, freedom, and liberty!" CASSIUS. Anger's my meat; I sup upon myself,And so shall starve with feeding. My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care, At eighteen years became inquisitive After his brother, and importun'd me That his attendant-so his case was like, Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name Might bear him company in the quest of him; Whom whils Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my teethin your service. O, what a time have you chose out, brave Caius, To wear a kerchief! Would you were not sick! LIGARIUS. What's he that hath so much thy place mistook To set thee here? Kent. You, you, ay, you! We have done our course; there's money for your pains. God help, poor souls, how idly do they talk!ADRIANA. Such unconstant starts are we like to have from him asthis of Kent's banishment. Bardolfe, and my little Souldiourthere, be merry Sil. Our army's in the field:We never yet made doubt but Rome was readyTo answer us. I will be satisfied: deny me this,And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know:--Why sinks that cauldron? and what noise is this?[Hautboys. How now? how now mad Wagge? What in thyquips and thy quiddities? What a plague haue I to doewith a Buffe-Ierkin? Prin. If she will return me my jewels, I will giveover my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation; if not, assure yourself I will seek satisfaction of you. Thy son is banish'd upon good advice, Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave. Thus to have said,As you were fore-advis'd, had touch'd his spiritAnd tried his inclination; from him pluck'dEither his gracious promise, which you might, As cause had call'd you up, have held him to;Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,Which eaAh, Luciana, did he tempt thee so? Might'st thou perceive austerely in his eye That he did plead in earnest? Yea or no? Look'd he or red or pale, or sad or merrily? What observation mad'st thou in this case Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?LUC If it please your Worshippe, there's one Pistollcome from the Court with newes Fal. Good Monsieur Charles! What's the new news at the new court? CHARLES. Her part, poor soul, seeming as burdened With lesser weight, but not with lesser woe, Was carried with more speed before the wind; And in our sight they three were taken up By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought. Come on;Gently my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;Be bright and jovial 'mong your guests to-night. He sits in hisstate as a thing made for Alexander. Draw, you rogue! for,though it be night, yet the moon shines. Pindarus ascends the hill. Faith, he tonight hath boarded a land carack; If it prove lawful prize, he's made forever. And when I have heard it, what blessings brings it? Con. My services, which I have done the signiory, Shall out-tongue his complaints. Mine eye hath well examined his parts And finds them perfect Richard. If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it, And I will break with her and with her father, And thou shalt have her. Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;Come like shadows, so depart![Eight kings appear, and pass over in order, the last with aglass in his hand; Banquo following. There's many a beast then in a populous city, And many a civil monster. Sound! First trumpet. Your accent is something finer than you could purchasein so removed a dwelling. Follow your function, go,And batten on cold bits. Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of yourGrace; for trouble being gone, comfort should remain; but when youdepart from me, sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave. See Sonnes, what things you are:How quickly Nature falls into reuolt,When Gold becomes her Obiect?For this, the foolish ouer-carefull FathersHaue broke their sleepes with thoughts,Their braines with care, their bones with industry. Take you this weapon, Which I have here recover'd from the Moor. I am unfortunate in the infirmity, and dare not task my weaknesswith any more. Then let me heareOf you my gentle Cousin Westmerland,What yesternight our Councell did decree,In forwarding this deere expedience West. I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquaintedwith thee. Sir, can you tellWhere he bestows himself?LORD. Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know, [Touching his own head] Thus high at least, although your knee be low. And then it started, like a guilty thing Upon a fearful summons. I honour'd him, I lov'd him, and will weep My date of life out for his sweet life's loss. It is the curse of kings to be attended By slaves that take their humours for a warrant To break within the bloody house of life, And on the winking of authority To understand a law; to know the meaning Of dangerous majesty, when perchance it frowns Mor Your uncle must not know but you are dead: I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports; And, pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure That Hubert, for the wealth of all the world, Will not offend thee. Colleuile shallstill be your Name, a Traytor your Degree, and the Dungeonyour Place, a place deepe enough: so shall you bestill Colleuile of the Dale Col. Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord, Than this weak arm. Princes and Counties! Surely a princely testimony, agoodly count, Count Comfect, a sweet gallant surely! O that I were aman for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my sake! But manhood is melted into cursies, valour intocompliment, and No, that you shall not till you take her hand Before this friar and swear to marry her. He rais'd the house with loud and coward cries. Be wary then; best safety lies in fear: Youth to itself rebels, though none else near. Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him out; wind me into him, Ipray you; frame the business after your own wisdom. He hath brought many captives home to Rome, Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill. This is the deadly spight, that angers me,My Wife can speake no English, I no Welsh Glend. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart a thing to you from his ma jesty. The Moor is of a free and open nature, That thinks men honest that but seem to be so, And will as tenderly be led by the nose As asses are. This is a poor epitome of yours,Which, by the interpretation of full time,May show like all yourself. Not all the water in the rough rude sea Can wash the balm off from an anointed king; The breath of worldly men cannot depose The deputy elected by the Lord. Therefore, most gracious Duke, with thy command Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help. It were an honest action to say So to the Moor. Then learn this of me: to have is to have; for itis a figure in rhetoric that drink, being pour'd out of cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty the other; for all your writers do consent that ipse is he; now, you are not ipse,for I am he. You follow the yong Prince vp and downe, likehis euill Angell Fal. Nor did you think it follyTo keep your great pretences veil'd till whenThey needs must show themselves; which in the hatching,It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. To a cruel war I sent him; from whencehe returned his brows bound with oak. No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip: she is spherical, like a globe; I could find out countries in her. By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st, I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spak'st it, That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death. For this, they haue ingrossed and pyl'd vpThe canker'd heapes of strange-atchieued Gold:For this, they haue beene thoughtfull, to inuestTheir Sonnes with Arts, and Martiall Exercises:When, like the Bee, culling from euery flowerThe vertuous Sweetes, our No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds, As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond, Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound The open ear of youth doth always listen; Report of fashions in proud Italy, Whose manners still our tardy apish nation 'Nor gives it satisfaction to our blood That we must curb it upon others' proof, To be forbod the sweets that seems so good For fear of harms that preach in our behoof. But for a fine, quaint, graceful, andexcellent fashion, yours is worth ten on't. Exeunt Octavius, Antony, and their Army. Brother by th' mother's side, give me your hand; My father gave me honour, yours gave land. Now Falstaffe, where haue you beene all this while?When euery thing is ended, then you come. Mine honour is my life; both grow in one; Take honour from me, and my life is done: Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try; In that I live, and for that will I die. How now, sir! Have you that I sent you for?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Your Lordship (though not clean pastyour youth) hath yet some smack of age in you: some rellishof the saltnesse of Time, and I most humbly beseechyour Lordship, to haue a reuerend care of your health Iust. Methinks King Richard and myself should meet With no less terror than the elements Of fire and water, when their thund'ring shock At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven. I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus, The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool, With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news; Who, with his shears and measure in his hand, Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste Had falsely thrust upon contrary You cast th' euent of Warre (my Noble Lord)And summ'd the accompt of Chance, before you saidLet vs make head: It was your presurmize,That in the dole of blowes, your Son might drop. For whiles this honest fool Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune, And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor, I'll pour this pestilence into his ear, That she repeals him for her body's lust; And by how much she strives to do him good, She shall undo  He that dares approach, On him, on you, who not? I will maintain My truth and honour firmly. ) that came fro[m] thence,A Gentleman well bred, and of good name,That freely render'd me these newes for true Nor. Hee must then to the Innes of Court shortly: Iwas once of Clements Inne; where (I thinke) they willtalke of mad Shallow yet Sil. Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake? What villain touch'd his body, that did stab, And not for justice? What, shall one of us, That struck the foremost man of all this world But for supporting robbers, shall we now Contaminate our fingers with  Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes, For villainy is not without such rheum; And he, long traded in it, makes it seem Like rivers of remorse and innocency. True, who beares hardHis Brothers death at Bristow, the Lord Scroope. Wilt thou rest damn'd? God help thee, shallow man!God make incision in thee! thou art raw. Though no man be assur'd what grace to finde,You stand in coldest expectation. --And is Aufidius with him?--You are theyThat made the air unwholesome, when you castYour stinking greasy caps in hooting atCoriolanus' exile. Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars Between this chastis'd kingdom and myself And brought in matter that should feed this fire; And now 'tis far too huge to be blown out With that same weak wind which enkindled it. Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful; And pity to the general wrong of Rome As fire drives out fire, so pity pity Hath done this deed on Caesar. Away, they'll kill us!<Exeunt all but ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE andDROMIO OF SYRACUSE as fast as may be, frightedANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Three great ones of the city, In personal suit to make me his lieutenant, Off-capp'd to him; and, by the faith of man, I know my price, I am worth no worse a place. --The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sidedIn his behalf. Yes, I beseech your Grace; I am not yet well breath'd. O, sir, to wilful men The injuries that they themselves procure Must be their schoolmasters. You men of Angiers, open wide your gates And let young Arthur, Duke of Britaine, in, Who by the hand of France this day hath made Much work for tears in many an English mother, Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground; Many a widow's husband grov Messala, This is my birthday, as this very day Was Cassius born. Looke, looke,Heere comes my Iohn of Lancaster: Iohn. They stand at the door, master; bid themwelcome hither. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell himof her love? Claud. Why, sweet Othello? OTHELLO. Enter MELUN, wounded MELUN. [Drumbeats] The interruption of their churlish drums Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand; To parley or to fight, therefore prepare. Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest; but yet I could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me: I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my be Exton, thy fierce hand Hath with the King's blood stain'd the King's own land. She never yet was foolish that was fair, For even her folly help'd her to an heir. But hearke you Kate,I must not haue you henceforth, question me,Whether I go: nor reason whereabout. I see we still did meet each other's man, And I was ta'en for him, and he for me, And thereupon these ERRORS are arose. See what a ready tongue Suspition hath:He that but feares the thing, he would not know,Hath by Instinct, knowledge from others Eyes,That what he feard, is chanc'd. Heauen send the Companion a better Prince: Icannot rid my hands of him Iust. They choose their magistrate;And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'His popular 'shall,' against a graver bench Than ever frown'd in Greece. But, for your private satisfaction, Because I love you, I will let you know. It will not be accepted, on my life,The Dowglas and the Hotspurre both together,Are confident against the world in Armes King. Good morrow, Brutus, do we trouble you? BRUTUS. The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster, With clog of conscience and sour melancholy, Hath yielded up his body to the grave; But here is Carlisle living, to abide Thy kingly doom, and sentence of his pride. The Theeues haue bound the True-men: Nowcould thou and I rob the Theeues, and go merily to London,it would be argument for a Weeke, Laughter for aMoneth, and a good iest for euer Poynes. Threescore and ten I can remember well:Within the volume of which time I have seenHours dreadful and things strange; but this sore nightHath trifled former knowings. You have pray'd well to-day:This morning for ten thousand of your throatsIed not have given a doit. Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, from the bayDROMIO OF SYRACUSE. He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rockWith rigorous hands: he hath resisted law,And therefore law shall scorn him further trialThan the severity of the public power,Which he so sets at nought. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,That you do lie so late?PORTER. Philip, what say'st thou to the Cardinal? CONSTANCE. This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner; That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her, Could witness it, for he was with me then; Who parted with me to go fetch a chain, Promising to bring it to the Porpentine, Where Balthazar and I did dine  What work's, my countrymen, in hand? where go youWith bats and clubs? the matter? speak, I pray you. Our Nauie is addressed, our Power collected,Our Substitutes, in absence, well inuested,And euery thing lyes leuell to our wish;Onely wee want a little personall Strength:And pawse vs, till these Rebels, now a-foot,Come vnderneath the yoake of Gouernment Farewell, kind neighbours: we wish'd CoriolanusHad lov'd you as we did. A dearer merit, not so deep a maim As to be cast forth in the common air, Have I deserved at your Highness' hands. O be remov'd from him, and answer well! AUSTRIA. If he be not in love with some woman, there is nobelieving old signs. To his father, that so tenderly and entirely loves him. Dost understand the word? My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would95 pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music, exc Now all's his:When, by and by, the din of war 'gan pierceHis ready sense; then straight his doubled spiritRe-quick'ned what in flesh was fatigate,And to the battle came he; where he didRun reeking o'er the lives of men, as if'Twere a perpetual spoil: an How lies their battle? know you on which sideThey have placed their men of trust?COMINIUS. Three proper young men, of excellent growth andpresence. A thousand welcomes!And more a friend than e'er an enemy;Yet, Marcius, that was much. Things that are mouldie,lacke vse: very singular good. I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcomedear. I wish I had a cause to seek him there,To oppose his hatred fully. Our Battaile is more full of Names then yours,Our Men more perfect in the vse of Armes,Our Armor all as strong, our Cause the best;Then Reason will, our hearts should be as good. When you speak best unto thepurpose, it is not worth the wagging of your beards; and yourbeards deserve not so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher'scushion or to be entombed in an ass's pack-saddle. I warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn Poland winter. Whose party do the townsmen yet admit? KING PHILIP. --Masters o' the people,We do request your kindest ears; and, after, Your loving motion toward the common body,To yield what passes here. I am nowin great haste, as it may appear unto you. With all my heart; and it doth much content me To hear him so inclin?. --To the market-place:--You have put me now to such a part which neverI shall discharge to the life. Why art thou not at Windsor with him (Thomas?) Clar. I am the second son of old Sir Rowland, That bring these tidings to this fair assembly. He doth, for he did bid Antonio Send word to you he would be there tomorrow. Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier; No more infected with my country's loveThan when I parted hence, but still subsistingUnder your great command. By this the weary lords Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done By sight of what I have, your noble company. Yet your good-willMust have that thanks from Rome, after the measureAs you intended well. Thou hast the most vnsauoury smiles, and art indeedthe most comparatiue rascallest sweet yong Prince. I' th' last night's storm I such a fellow saw, Which made me think a man a worm. I, madam? No, I have no reason for it That is my brother's plea, and none of mine; The which if he can prove, 'a pops me out At least from fair five hundred pound a year. The pleasure that some fathers feed upon Is my strict fast-I mean my children's looks; And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt. Tut our horses they shall not see, Ile tye them inthe wood, our vizards wee will change after wee leauethem: and sirrah, I haue Cases of Buckram for the nonce,to immaske our noted outward garments Prin. I did, I saw him dead,Breathlesse, and bleeding on the ground: Art thou aliue?Or is it fantasie that playes vpon our eye-sight?I prethee speake, we will not trust our eyesWithout our eares. Imagination of some great exploit,Driues him beyond the bounds of Patience Hot. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gain-giving as would perhaps trouble a woman. Captaine? thou abhominable damn'd Cheater,art thou not asham'd to be call'd Captaine? If Captaineswere of my minde, they would trunchion you out, for takingtheir Names vpon you, before you haue earn'd them. All the contagion of the south light on you,You shames of Rome!--you herd of--Boils and plaguesPlaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'dFarther than seen, and one infect anotherAgainst the wind a mile! You souls of geeseThat bear the shapes of men, how He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here. I would not spare my brother in this case, If he should scorn me so apparently. Now to seem to affect the malice and displeasure of thepeople is as bad as that which he dislikes,--to flatter them fortheir love. I may not breathe my censure What he might be: if what he might he is not, I would to heaven he were! LODOVICO. Draw, seem to defend yourself; now quit you well. Hear me speak:--As I do know the consul's worthiness,So can I name his faults,--SICINIUS. Most shallowly did you these Armes commence,Fondly brought here, and foolishly sent hence. The FRENCH KING'S campEnter CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and SALISBURY CONSTANCE. Get weapons, ho! And raise some special officers of night. O rose of May! Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!?O heavens! is? possible a young maid? wits Should be as mortal as an old man? life? Nature is fine in love; and where ?is fine, It sends some precious instance of itself After the thing it loves. I have no words,--My voice is in my sword: thou bloodier villainThan terms can give thee out![They fight. We must findAn evident calamity, though we hadOur wish, which side should win; for either thouMust, as a foreign recreant, be ledWith manacles through our streets, or elseTriumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,And bear the palm for having bravely shed I know her spirits are as coy and wild As haggards of the rock. She dying, as it must be so maintain'd, Upon the instant that she was accus'd, Shall be lamented, pitied, and excus'd Of every hearer; for it so falls out That what we have we prize not to the worth Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost, Why, th Arthur of Britaine, yield thee to my hand, And out of my dear love I'll give thee more Than e'er the coward hand of France can win. No, believe me, ?is very cold; the wind is northerly. Well, sir, learn to jest in good time; there's a time for all things. May he not do it by fine and recovery?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. But sirra: There's no roome for Faith, Truth,nor Honesty, in this bosome of thine: it is all fill'd vppewith Guttes and Midriffe. We have been called so of many; not that our heads are somebrown, some black, some auburn, some bald, but that our wits areso diversely coloured; and truly I think if all our wits were toissue out of one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south;andYou Sonne Iohn, and my Cousin WestmerlandTowards Yorke shall bend you, with your deerest speedTo meet Northumberland, and the Prelate Scroope,Who (as we heare) are busily in Armes. Out of these convertites There is much matter to be heard and learn'd. If the wars eat us notup, they will; and there's all the love they bear us. His name? Gonzago: The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian; you shall see anon how the murderer gets the love of Gonzago? wife. Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear, And since you know you cannot see yourself So well as by reflection, I your glass Will modestly discover to yourself That of yourself which you yet know not of. I sent for you (when there were matters againstyou for your life) to come speake with me Fal. Sir Iohn, I sent you before your Expedition, toShrewsburie Fal. Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name Hot. Will you sit down with me? and we two will railagainst our mistress the world, and all our misery. They are in the very wrath of love, and they will together. Good Cinna, take this paper, And look you lay it in the praetor's chair, Where Brutus may but find it; and throw this In at his window; set this up with wax Upon old Brutus' statue. He has it now; and by his looks methinks'Tis warm at his heart. O my good Lord Mowbray,Construe the Times to their Necessities,And you shall say (indeede) it is the Time,And not the King, that doth you iniuries. The dungeon of the CastleEnter KING RICHARD KING RICHARD. But here must end the story of my life; And happy were I in my timely death, Could all my travels warrant me they live. The courtesy of nations allows you mybetter in that you are the first-born; but the same tradition takesnot away my blood, were there twenty brothers betwixt us. Hee is not there to day: hee dines in London King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal, And you must put me in your heart for friend,127 Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear, That he which hath your noble father slain Pursu? my life. I do demand,If you submit you to the people's voices,Allow their officers, and are contentTo suffer lawful censure for such faultsAs shall be proved upon you. This fest'red joint cut off, the rest rest sound; This let alone will all the rest confound. For ever may my knees grow to the earth, [Kneels] My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth, Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak. Good my lord, How does your honour for this many a day? Ham. Such a nature,Tickled with good success, disdains the shadowWhich he treads on at noon: but I do wonderHis insolence can brook to be commandedUnder Cominius. Let the great gods, That keep this dreadful pudder o'er our heads, Find out their enemies now. Why, it cannot choose but be a Noble plot,And then the power of Scotland, and of YorkeTo ioyne with Mortimer, Ha Wor. Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven! To thee, King John, my holy errand is. Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age, And high top bald with dry antiquity, A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair, Lay sleeping on his back. Where thou wilt Lad, Ile make one: and I doenot, call me Villaine, and baffle me Prin. The common executioner, Whose heart th' accustom'd sight of death makes hard, Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck But first begs pardon. 'Tis three o'clock, and Romans, yet ere night We shall try fortune in a second fight. Upon my honour, Myself, my brother, and this grieved Count Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night Talk with a ruffian at her chamber window, Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain, Confess'd the vile encounters they have had A thousand tim Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd His lands to me, and took it on his death That this my mother's son was none of his; And if he were, he came into the world Full fourteen weeks before the course of time. This lies glowing, I can tell you, and is almost maturefor the violent breaking out. But I must goe, and meet with Danger there,Or it will seeke me in another place,And finde me worse prouided Wife. If either of you know any inward impediment why youshould not be conjoined, I charge you on your souls to utter it. <ExeuntSCENE 2The martEnter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, and FIRSTMERCHANTFIRST MERCHANT. Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains! Give me some help. So, that skill in the Weaponis nothing, without Sack (for that sets it a-worke:) andLearning, a meere Hoord of Gold, kept by a Deuill, tillSack commences it, and sets it in act, and vse. He was wont to speakplain and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier; and nowis he turn'd orthography; his words are a very fantasticalbanquet- just so many strange dishes. That sir which serves and seeks for gain, And follows but for form, Will pack when it begins to rain And leave thee in the storm. Thou art a villain to impeach me thus; I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty Against thee presently, if thou dar'st stand. Then 'tis like the breath of an unfeed lawyeryou gaveme nothing for't. Though this be madness, yet there is a method in?. Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a prettyjest your daughter told us of. Thus far can I praise him: he is of a noble strain, ofapproved valour, and confirm'd honesty. But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,And there is my Lord of Worcester,And a Head of gallant Warriors,Noble Gentlemen Arch. , AND ISPROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITYWITH PERMISSION. Iwill piece out the comfort with what addition I can. Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul breath, and foul breath is noisome. If the deed were ill,Be you contented, wearing now the Garland,To haue a Sonne, set your Decrees at naught?To plucke downe Iustice from your awefull Bench?To trip the course of Law, and blunt the SwordThat guards the peace, and safety of your Person?Nay The fitchew nor the soiled horse goes to't With a more riotous appetite. Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts, And bring away the armour that is there. Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you meanby that same handkerchief you gave me even now? I was a finefool to take it. Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse Full of crusadoes; and, but my noble Moor Is true of mind and made of no such baseness As jealous creatures are, it were enough To put him to ill thinking. Sweet Hero! she is wrong'd, she is sland'red, she isundone. When, Caius, Rome is thine,Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine. Those that with haste will make a mighty fire Begin it with weak straws. Well, Ile goe with thee, prouide vs all thingsnecessary, and meete me to morrow night in Eastcheape,there Ile sup. But, soft you, let me be! Pluck up, my heart, and besad! Did he not say my brother was fled? Dog. Good Volumnius, Thou know'st that we two went to school together; Even for that our love of old, I prithee, Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it. Welcome mylittle tyne theefe, and welcome indeed too: Ile drinke toM[aster]. Thou hast taken against me a most just exception; but yet, I protest, have dealt most directly inthy affair. [He kneels down] My gracious lord KING RICHARD. Is not his Brother, Thomas of Clarence, withhim? Glo. She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd That heaven had made her such a man; she thank'd me, And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her, I should but teach him how to tell my story, And that would woo her. The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls, Are their males' subjects, and at their controls. I serve the King; On whose employment I was sent to you. Re-enter second Gentleman. My lord, the queen would speak with you, and presently. And 'tis no little reason bids vs speed,To saue our heads, by raising of a Head:For, beare our selues as euen as we can,The King will alwayes thinke him in our debt,And thinke, we thinke our selues vnsatisfied,Till he hath found a time to pay vs home. [To Goneril] Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil. Do you know this noblegentleman, Edmund? Edm. If I see anything to-night why I should not marry her to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there willI shame her. Faith, I have heard too much, for your words and performances are no kin together. But which are the offenders that are to be examined? letthem come before Master Constable. Away Varlets, draw Bardolfe: Cut me off theVillaines head: throw the Queane in the Channel Host. [To ANGELO] Get you home And fetch the chain; by this I know 'tis made. Hast thou conspired with thy brother too, That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour? What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave? BASTARD. Away, then, with good courage! Yet, I know Our party may well meet a prouder foe. Our dinner done, and he not coming thither, I went to seek him. We breath too long: Come cosin Westmerland,Our duty this way lies, for heauens sake come Prin. Tell Bolingbroke, for yon methinks he stands, That every stride he makes upon my land Is dangerous treason; he is come to open The purple testament of bleeding war; But ere the crown he looks for live in peace, Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' son But who comes here? The safer sense will ne'er accommodate His master thus. Most subiect is the fattest Soyle to Weedes:And hee (the Noble Image of my Youth)Is ouer-spread with them: therefore my griefeStretches it selfe beyond the howre of death. Why I do trifle thus with his despair Is done to cure it. You have been always called a merciful man, partner. Not I: I tell thee what, Corporall Bardolph, Icould teare her: Ile be reueng'd on her Page. Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit, And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, I will be brief:?our noble son is mad: Mad call I it; for to define true madness, What is? but to be nothing else but mad? But let that go. O, would you had had her! Some one way, some another. Sir Iohn, you are so fretfull, you cannot liuelong Falst. Thou say'st true Hostesse, and he slanders theemost grossely Host. Therefore, good mother, To whom am I beholding for these limbs? Sir Robert never holp to make this leg. I do forget:--Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends;I have a strange infirmity, which is nothingTo those that know me. Hold vp thy head vile Scot, or thou art likeNeuer to hold it vp againe: the SpiritsOf valiant Sherly, Stafford, Blunt, are in my Armes;it is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee,Who neuer promiseth, but he meanes to pay. No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son; forhe's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman before him. Now, my good sweet Hony Lord, ride with vsto morrow. --I'll enter; if he slay me,He does fair justice; if he give me way,I'll do his country service. I prest me none but such Tostesand Butter, with Hearts in their Bellyes no bigger thenPinnes heads, and they haue bought out their seruices:And now, my whole Charge consists of Ancients, Corporals,Lieutenants, Gentlemen of Companies, Slaues asragged a L Alas the day: take heed of him: he stabd mein mine owne house, and that most beastly: he cares notwhat mischeefe he doth, if his weapon be out. SCENE 1A public placeEnter SECOND MERCHANT, ANGELO, and an OFFICERSECOND MERCHANT. With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my Rosalind; so, adieu. --Thou old and true Menenius,Thy tears are salter than a younger man's,And venomous to thine eyes. Here's that shall drive some of them to a non-come. So please you, for I never heard it yet; Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty. You will take little delight in it, I can tell you, there is such odds in the man. Thereafter as they be: a score of good Ewesmay be worth tenne pounds Shal. But, I beseech you,What says the other troop?MARCIUS. The King is come; deal mildly with his youth, For young hot colts being rag'd do rage the more. Learn, good soul, To think our former state a happy dream; From which awak'd, the truth of what we are Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet, To grim Necessity; and he and Will keep a league till death. By Jove himself,It makes the consuls base: and my soul achesTo know, when two authorities are up,Neither supreme, how soon confusionMay enter 'twixt the gap of both and takeThe one by the other. What's the matter? GRATIANO. I would fainhave it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it if you threewill but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction. I will after straightAnd tell him so: for I will ease my heart,Although it be with hazard of my head Nor. And therefore will hee wipe his Tables cleane,And keepe no Tell-tale to his Memorie,That may repeat, and Historie his losse,To new remembrance. Dost thou hear? Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice, And could of men distinguish, her election Hath seal? thee for herself: for thou hast been As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing; A man that Fortune? buffets and rewards84 Hast ta?n The castle royally is mann'd, my lord, Against thy entrance. There is more newes:I learned in Worcester, as I rode along,He cannot draw his Power this fourteene dayes Dowg. Part us, Northumberland; I towards the north, Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime; My wife to France, from whence set forth in pomp, She came adorned hither like sweet May, Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day. --Pursue him to his house, and pluck him thence;Lest his infection, being of catching nature,Spread further. ' But yet for all that, cousin, lethim be a handsome fellow, or else make another cursy, and say, 'Father, as it please me. Sirra Iacke, thy horse stands behinde the hedg,when thou need'st him, there thou shalt finde him. Ah, none but in this iron age would do it! The iron of itself, though heat red-hot, Approaching near these eyes would drink my tears, And quench his fiery indignation Even in the matter of mine innocence; Nay, after that, consume away in rust But for co Reverse thy doom; And in thy best consideration check This hideous rashness. O that this good Blossome could bee kept fromCankers: Well, there is six pence to preserue thee Bard. [They wrestle] ROSALIND. [To DUKE] You to your former honour I bequeath; Your patience and your virtue well deserves it. Can a weake emptie Vessell beare such a hugefull Hogs-head? There's a whole Marchants Ventureof Burdeux-Stuffe in him: you haue not seene a Hulkebetter stufft in the Hold. Since kings break faith upon commodity, Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee. Live a thousand years, I shall not find myself so apt to die; No place will please me so, no means of death, As here by Caesar, and by you cut off, The choice and master spirits of this age. Those same Noble ScottesThat are your Prisoners Hot. And so, successe of Mischiefe shall be borne,And Heire from Heire shall hold this Quarrell vp,Whiles England shall haue generation Iohn. Methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion. Thus (my Royall Liege)Accusing it, I put it on my Head,To try with it (as with an Enemie,That had before my face murdred my Father)The Quarrell of a true Inheritor. Lord Marshal, command our officers-at-arms Be ready to direct these home alarms. How now, my masters! have you chose this man?FIRST CITIZEN. A man may break a word with you, sir; and words are but wind; Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind. Give thy thoughts no tongue, Nor any unproportion? thought his act. O, my heart is sick! Enter a MESSENGER MESSENGER. Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills Unto the legions on the other side. Do not bid meDismiss my soldiers, or capitulateAgain with Rome's mechanics. All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man. Indeed they say the senators tomorrow Mean to establish Caesar as a king, And he shall wear his crown by sea and land In every place save here in Italy. Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have The leading of thine own revenges, takeTh' one half of my commission; and set down,--As best thou art experienc'd, since thou know'stThy country's strength and weakness,--thine own ways;Whether to knock agaI look'd for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no whiteness in them; but I guess it stood in her chin, by the salt rheum that ran between France and it. Something he left imperfect in the state, which since his coming forth is thought of, which imports to the kingdom somuch fear and danger that his personal return was most requiredand necessary. All the stor'd vengeances of heaven fall On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones, You taking airs, with lameness! Corn. Is't possible that so short a time can alter the condition of aman?MENENIUS. Touch me not so near: I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio; Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him. Of no more force to dispossess me, sir, Than was his will to get me, as I think. There is further compliment of leave-taking between Franceand him. Health to my Soueraigne, and new happinesseAdded to that, that I am to deliuer. How hast thou lost thy breath?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Good sir, say whe'r you'll answer me or no; If not, I'll leave him to the officer. Here am I left to underprop his land, Who, weak with age, cannot support myself. Then you perceiue the Body of our Kingdome,How foule it is: what ranke Diseases grow,And with what danger, neere the Heart of it? War. Now for our Consciences, the Armes is faire,When the intent for bearing them is iust. Me thinks my Moity, North from Burton here,In quantitie equals not one of yours:See, how this Riuer comes me cranking in,And cuts me from the best of all my Land,A huge halfe Moone, a monstrous Cantle out. Pleads he in earnest? Look upon his face; His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest; His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast. I have words to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of the matter. Let me go, sir, or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard. Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that Imay be consul, I have here the customary gown. Markeis a long one, for a poore lone woman to beare: & I haueborne, and borne, and borne, and haue bin fub'd off, andfub'd-off, from this day to that day, that it is a shame tobe thought on. Giue me my Sword, and Cloake:Falstaffe, good night. How dearly would it touch thee to the quick, Should'st thou but hear I were licentious, And that this body, consecrate to thee, By ruffian lust should be contaminate! Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me, And hurl the name of husband in my face,  Go you to the city;Learn how 'tis held; and what they are that mustBe hostages for Rome. He's one honest enough; would all the rest were so![Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA. Out you Rogue, play out the Play: I haue muchto say in the behalfe of that Falstaffe. By heauen, me thinkes it were an easie leap,To plucke bright Honor from the pale-fac'd Moone,Or diue into the bottome of the deepe,Where Fadome-line could neuer touch the ground,And plucke vp drowned Honor by the Lockes:So he that doth redeeme her thenc Both your ma jesties Might, by the sovereign power you have of us, Put your dread pleasures more into command Than to entreaty. In themeantime, good Signior Benedick, repair to Leonato's, commend me to himand tell him I will not fail him at supper; for indeed he hathmade great preparation. A jewel in a ten-times barr'd-up chest Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast. Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour? GAUNT. Done to death by slanderous tongues Was the Hero that here lies. --Go get some water,And wash this filthy witness from your hand. Youcowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee; a tailor made thee. What, must I come to you With five-and-twenty, Regan? Said you so? Reg. Vpon my Tongue, continuall Slanders ride,The which, in euery Language, I pronounce,Stuffing the Eares of them with false Reports:I speake of Peace, while couert Enmitie(Vnder the smile of Safety) wounds the World:And who but Rumour, who but onely IMake fFor hee is gracious, if hee be obseru'd:Hee hath a Teare for Pitie, and a HandOpen (as Day) for melting Charitie:Yet notwithstanding, being incens'd, hee's Flint,As humorous as Winter, and as sudden,As Flawes congealed in the Spring of day. You say you'll marry me, if I be willing? PHEBE. They have a leader,Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to't. There was no thought of pleasing you when she was christen'd. One of them is well knowne, my gracious Lord,a grosse fat man Car. What is the matter, masters? Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving, Speak: who began this? On thy love, I charge thee. Bid them wash their facesAnd keep their teeth clean. What, urge you your petitions in the street? Come to the Capitol. Where be your gibes now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment, that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen? Now, get you to my lady? chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thi Sleep rock thy brain, And never come mischance between us twain! [Exit. How! Was it we? we lov'd him, but, like beasts,And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,Who did hoot him out o' the city. If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayest live; If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive. Grace go with you, sir! Exit [Edgar]. Why have my sisters husbands, if they say They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed, That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry Half my love with him, half my care and duty. I pr'ythee now, sweet son,--as thou hast saidMy praises made thee first a soldier, so,To have my praise for this, perform a partThou hast not done before. Exeunt with a dead march. And now, good friends, As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers, Give me one poor request. A long flourish, while the KING consults his Council Draw near, And list what with our council we have done. Is Brutus sick, and is it physical To walk unbraced and suck up the humors Of the dank morning? What, is Brutus sick, And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto hi [Aside] Drawn in the flattering table of her eye, Hang'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow, And quarter'd in her heart-he doth espy Himself love's traitor. I am tied to th' stake, and I must stand the course. Look, whether he has not turn? his colour, and has tears in? eyes. Why, then, should I be consul? By yond clouds,Let me deserve so ill as you, and make meYour fellow tribune. Not in the legionsOf horrid hell can come a devil more damn'dIn evils to top Macbeth. But thou wouldst not think how ill all? here about my heart: but it is no matter. It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place, To be producedas, if I stay, I shall Against the Moor; for I do know, the state, However this may gall him with some check, Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd With such loud reason to the Cyprus  Sir, this young fellow's mother could; whereupon she grew round-womb'd, and had indeed, sir, a son for her cradle ereshe had a husband for her bed. He did bewray his practice, and receiv'd This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him. In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base, To come at traitors' calls, and do them grace. O my dear Gertrude, this, Like to a murdering piece, in many places Give, me superfluous death. Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing passionwithout some instruction. I did send To you for gold to pay my legions, Which you denied me. Why then couer, and set them downe: andsee if thou canst finde out Sneakes Noyse; Mistris Teare-sheetwould faine haue some Musique 2. As good as heart can wish:The King is almost wounded to the death:And in the Fortune of my Lord your Sonne,Prince Harrie slaine out-right: and both the BluntsKill'd by the hand of Dowglas. If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten forbeing old before thy time. For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown, God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay A glorious angel. I 'gin to be a-weary of the sun,And wish the estate o' the world were now undone. Confess yourself freely to her; importune her help to put you in your place again. And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico? IAGO. However God or fortune cast my lot, There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne, A loyal, just, and upright gentleman. There is your Crowne,And he that weares the Crowne immortally,Long guard it yours. Alas, dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours! ORLANDO. All places yield to him ere he sits down;And the nobility of Rome are his;The senators and patricians love him too:The tribunes are no soldiers; and their peopleWill be as rash in the repeal as hastyTo expel him thence. When, Harry, when? Obedience bids I should not bid again. This would have seem'd a period To such as love not sorrow; but another, To amplify too much, would make much more, And top extremity. Let him alone; He did inform the truth: but for our gentlemen,The common file,--a plague!--tribunes for them!--The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budgeFrom rascals worse than they. I will do so:My Lord of Westmerland leade him to his Tent West. If you will know my house, 'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by. Hostesse, I forgiue thee:Go make ready Breakfast, loue thy Husband,Looke to thy Seruants, and cherish thy Guests:Thou shalt find me tractable to any honest reason:Thou seest, I am pacified still. How chance thou art not with the Prince, thy Brother?Hee loues thee, and thou do'st neglect him (Thomas. What is the matter, ho? Who is't that cried? IAGO. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk? of you, And sure I am two men there are not living To whom he more adheres. Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here; Better far off than near, be ne'er the near. But soft! methinks I scent the morning air; Brief let me be. I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness. I have made bold, Iago, To send in to your wife. What, To kiss in private? OTHELLO. Give me to know How this foul rout began, who set it on, And he that is approved in this offense, Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth, Shall lose me. Philip of France, in right and true behalf Of thy deceased brother Geffrey's son, Arthur Plantagenet, lays most lawful claim To this fair island and the territories, To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine, Desiring thee to lay aside the sword Whi You are jealous now That this is from some mistress, some remembrance. The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee! Patience is stale, and I am weary of it. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge, It could not move thus. ExitBASTARD France, I am burn'd up with inflaming wrath, A rage whose heat hath this condition That nothing can allay, nothing but blood, The blood, and dearest-valu'd blood, of France. And, good lieutenant,I think you think I love you. Parted you in good terms? Found you no displeasure in himby word or countenance Edg. [Within] I What ho, my liege, for God's sake, let mein. And Prince of Wales, so dare we venter thee,Albeit, considerations infiniteDo make against it: No good Worster, no,We loue our people well; euen those we loueThat are misled vpon your Cousins part:And will they take the offer of our Grace:Both he, and t How now, Oswald? What, have you writ that letter to my sister? Osw. Thou hast it now,--king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,As the weird women promis'd; and, I fear,Thou play'dst most foully for't; yet it was saidIt should not stand in thy posterity;But that myself should be the root and fatherOf many kings. By thee; and this thou didst return from him That he did buffet thee, and in his blows Denied my house for his, me for his wife. What are you there? Come in and give some help. Thou com'st to use thy tongue; thy story quickly. Lo, citizens, he says he is content:The warlike service he has done, consider; thinkUpon the wounds his body bears, which showLike graves i' the holy churchyard. First-heaven be the record to my speech! In the devotion of a subject's love, Tend'ring the precious safety of my prince, And free from other misbegotten hate, Come I appellant to this princely presence. Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou not suspect my years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But,masters, remember that I am an ass. She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure, Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter Exeunt. Who does it, then? His madness: if ? be so, Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong?; His madness is poor Hamlet? enemy. not Charles, the Duke's wrestler, here to speak withme? DENNIS. You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds, And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet; Whilst damned Casca, like a cur, behind Strooke Caesar on the neck. Discharge my followers; let them hence away, From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day. Till that time Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world. : I would I had the powerTo say so to my husband. Peace be to France, if France in peace permit Our just and lineal entrance to our own! If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven, Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven! KING PHILIP. My cousin tells him in his ear that he is inher heart. O worthiest cousin!The sin of my ingratitude even nowWas heavy on me: thou art so far before,That swiftest wing of recompense is slowTo overtake thee. Health to my Lord, and gentle Cousin Mowbray Mow. Ha! Mak'st thou this shame thy pastime? Kent. Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him? OLIVER. A good Varlet, a good Varlet, a very good Varlet,Sir Iohn: I haue drunke too much Sacke at Supper. But there's no heed to be taken of them; if Caesar had stabbed their mothers, they would havedone no less. Let's have a dance ere we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts and our wives'heels. What I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath. That thing you speak of, I took it for a man. He writes me here, that inward sicknesse,And that his friends by deputationCould not so soone be drawne: nor did he thinke it meet,To lay so dangerous and deare a trustOn any Soule remou'd, but on his owne. It is no matter; let no images Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I beseech you pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken; for my duty cannot be silent when I think your Highness wrong'd. Macduff, this noble passion,Child of integrity, hath from my soulWiped the black scruples, reconcil'd my thoughtsTo thy good truth and honour. Enter the KING, the BISHOP OFCARLISLE,AUMERLE, and soldiers KING RICHARD. If I had a thousand Sonnes, the first PrincipleI would teach them, should be to forsweare thinne Potations,and to addict themselues to Sack. But Priam found the Fire, ere he his Tongue:And I, my Percies death, ere thou report'st it. Now is this golden crown like a deep well That owes two buckets, filling one another; The emptier ever dancing in the air, The other down, unseen, and full of water. Well, thus we play the Fooles with the time, &the spirits of the wise, sit in the clouds, and mocke vs: Isyour Master heere in London? Bard. One thus descended,That hath beside well in his person wrought To be set high in place, we did commendTo your remembrances: but you have found,Scaling his present bearing with his past,That he's your fixed enemy, and revokeYour sudden approbation. How now, Cassio! CASSIO. Will you tell me (Master Shallow) how to chusea man? Care I for the Limbe, the Thewes, the stature,bulke, and bigge assemblance of a man? giue mee thespirit (Master Shallow. Sweet Princes: what I did, I did in Honor,Led by th' Imperiall Conduct of my Soule,And neuer shall you see, that I will beggeA ragged, and fore-stall'd Remission. You are the hare of whom the proverb goes, Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard; I'll smoke your skin-coat an I catch you right; Sirrah, look to 't; i' faith I will, i' faith. [Enter the King, Queen, Hamlet, Polonius, Laertes, Voltimand, Cornelius, Lords, and Attendant. So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile; We lose it not so long as we can smile. You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter? Osw. Glendower speakes to her in Welsh, and she answeres him in thesame. For me, by Heauen (I bid you be assur'd)Ile be your Father, and your Brother too:Let me but beare your Loue, Ile beare your Cares;But weepe that Harrie's dead, and so will I. ' When I did hear The motley fool thus moral on the time, My lungs began to crow like chanticleer That fools should be so deep contemplative; And I did laugh sans intermission An hour by his dial. I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin, And let him find it. [Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman. Rob me the Exchequer the first thing thou do'st,and do it with vnwash'd hands too Bard. They say he is already in the Forest of Arden, and amany merry men with him; and there they live like the old RobinHood of England. Signior Andpholus, I wonder much That you would put me to this shame and trouble; And, not without some scandal to yourself, With circumstance and oaths so to deny This chain, which now you wear so openly. The heat is past, follow no farther now:Call in the Powers, good Cousin Westmerland. I came hither to tell you, and, circumstances short'ned(for she has been too long a-talking of), the lady is disloyal. [To AUMERLE] Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead meforth Of that sweet way I was in to despair! What say you now? What comfort have we now? By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly That bids me be of comfort any more. I will discharge vpon her (Sir Iohn) with twoBullets Falst. If that her breath will mist or stain the stone, Why, then she lives. Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet. If it be so, as fast as she answersthee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her with bitter words. Besides, I say and will in battle prove Or here, or elsewhere to the furthest verge That ever was survey'd by English eye That all the treasons for these eighteen years Complotted and contrived in this land Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and  By th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer An unknown opposite. Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me, I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me. Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not? SOOTHSAYER. Get you to bed on the instant; I will be returned forthwith. Let's present him to the Duke, like a Roman conqueror;and it would do well to set the deer's horns upon his head for a branch of victory. Myself the crying fellow did pursue, Lest by his clamoras it so fell out The town might fall in fright. For Sir, at Shrewsbury,As I am truly giuen to vnderstand,The King, with mightie and quick-raysed Power,Meetes with Lord Harry: and I feare, Sir Michell,What with the sicknesse of Northumberland,Whose Power was in the first proportion;And what with Owen  Nay, my good soldier, up;My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, andBy deed-achieving honour newly nam'd,--What is it?--Coriolanus must I call thee?But, O, thy wife!CORIOLANUS. A noble temper dost thou show in this; And great affections wrestling in thy bosom Doth make an earthquake of nobility. O, I should haue a heauy misse of thee,If I were much in loue with Vanity. He's fall'n in love with your foulness, and she'llfall in love with my anger. For thou dost know, O Damon dear, This realm dismantled was Of Jove himself; and now reigns here A very, very?a jock. O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain, Young man, thou couldst not die more honorable. So help me every spirit sanctified, As I have spoken for you all my best And stood within the blank of his displeasure For my free speech! You must awhile be patient. The Prince and Claudio promis'd by this hour To visit me. It is the very error of the moon; She comes more nearer earth than she was wont And makes men mad. If thou deniest it twenty times, thou liest; And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart, Where it was forged, with my rapier's point. Yet, though I distrust, Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must: For women? fear and love holds quantity;88 In neither aught, or in extremity. Let me see; what think you of falling in love? CELIA. The noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious; If it were so, it was a grievous fault, And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it. [aside] My tears begin to take his part so much They'll mar my counterfeiting. The Duke and all that know me in the city Can witness with me that it is not so: I ne'er saw Syracuse in my life. I will catechize the world for him; that is, makequestions and by them answer. My Selfe, and you Sonne Harry will towards Wales,To fight with Glendower, and the Earle of March. Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home? Osw. His bark is stoutly timber'd, and his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance; Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death, Stand in bold cure. This morning are they fled away and gone, And in their steads do ravens, crows, and kites Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us, As we were sickly prey. Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room; It would not out at windows nor at doors. Yes, my good lord, It doth contain a king; King Richard lies Within the limits of yon lime and stone; And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury, Sir Stephen Scroop, besides a clergyman Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn. It were a tedious difficulty, I think, To bring them to that prospect. It is a wonderfullthing to see the semblable Coherence of his mens spirits,and his: They, by obseruing of him, do beare themselueslike foolish Iustices: Hee, by conuersing with them, isturn'd into a Iustice-like Seruingman. We are all undone unlessThe noble man have mercy. Five summers have I spent in farthest Greece, Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia, And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus; Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought Or that or any place that harbours men. Re-enter attendant with glass Give me that glass, and therein will I read. O unhappy youth! Come not within these doors; within this roof The enemy of all your graces lives. Neuer, O neuer doe his Ghost the wrong,To hold your Honor more precise and niceWith others, then with him. Why dost not speak?Think'st thou it honourable for a noble manStill to remember wrongs?--Daughter, speak you:He cares not for your weeping. Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes to getmyself into more work. Let him go up into the public chair; We'll hear him. Still it cried, "Sleep no more!" to all the house:"Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore CawdorShall sleep no more,--Macbeth shall sleep no more!"LADY MACBETH. Therefore I'll watch himTill he be dieted to my request,And then I'll set upon him. Go but apart, Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will, And they shall hear and judge ?wixt you and me. Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not sopale:--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he cannot comeout on's grave. Enter Gloucester, brought in by two or three. Saving your merry humour, here's the note How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat, The fineness of the gold, and chargeful fashion, Which doth amount to three odd ducats more Than I stand debted to this gentleman. Vse his men well Dauy, for they are arrantKnaues, and will backe-bite Dauy. Fears and scruples shake us:In the great hand of God I stand; and thence,Against the undivulg'd pretense I fightOf treasonous malice. Last scene of all, That ends this strange eventful history, Is second childishness and mere oblivion; Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing. When wee with-drew (my Liege) wee left itheere King. She says enough; yet she's a simple bawd That cannot say as much. No boasting like a fool;This deed I'll do before this purpose cool:But no more sights!--Where are these gentlemen?Come, bring me where they are. Tell him this tale, and from the mouth of England Add thus much more, that no Italian priest Shall tithe or toll in our dominions; But as we under heaven are supreme head, So, under Him that great supremacy, Where we do reign we will alone uphold, Witho To both these sisters have I sworn my love; Each jealous of the other, as the stung Are of the adder. The Arch-Deacon hath diuided itInto three Limits, very equally:England, from Trent, and Seuerne. Marry, he must have a long spoon that must eat with the devil. There's neuer any of these demure Boyes cometo any proofe: for thinne Drinke doth so ouer-cooletheir blood, and making many Fish-Meales, that theyfall into a kinde of Male Greene-sicknesse: and then,when they marry, they get Wenches. ' Are not you The owner of the house I did inquire for? CELIA. Do but start And echo with the clamour of thy drum, And even at hand a drum is ready brac'd That shall reverberate all as loud as thine: Sound but another, and another shall, As loud as thine, rattle the welkin's ear And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder; f Follow, Cominius; we must follow you;Right worthy your priority. Well, ruffian, I must pocket up these wrongs, Because BASTARD. Poor men alone? No, no; thenoblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal. Come, woo me, woo me; for now I am in a holidayhumour, and like enough to consent. Then shall he mourn (If ever love had interest in his liver) And wish he had not so accused her- No, though be thought his accusation true. To your professed bosoms I commit him; But yet, alas, stood I within his grace, I would prefer him to a better place! So farewell to you both. Falstaffe? fast asleepe behinde the Arras, andsnorting like a Horse Prince. And when we have our naked frailties hid,That suffer in exposure, let us meet,And question this most bloody piece of workTo know it further. [To SILVIUS] As you love Phebe, meet;and asI love no woman, I'll meet. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet. [Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Banquo, Lennox, Macduff, Ross,Angus, and Attendants. 'Twas time to counterfet, or that hotte Termagant Scot,had paid me scot and lot too. If she lives till doomsday, she'll burn week longer than the whole world. I would he had continu'd to his countryAs he began, and not unknit himselfThe noble knot he made. --Tell me not Wherein I seem unnatural: desire notTo allay my rages and revenges withYour colder reasons. My lords of England, let me tell you this: I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs, And labour'd all I could to do him right; But in this kind to come, in braving arms, Be his own carver and cut out his way, To find out right with wrong-it may not be;  Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter--anold man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, I would desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin betweenhis brows. I here take my oathbefore this honourable assembly, she kicked the poor King herfather. And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love? CASSIO. But I doubt they will be too hard for vs Poin. Hold, sir, for God's sake! Now your jest isearnest. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar, And in the spirit of men there is no blood. Farewell, my lord, securely I espy Virtue with valour couched in thine eye. When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails She'll flay thy wolvish visage. O heavens!that this treason were notor not I the detector! Corn. Antipholus, thou cam'st from Corinth first?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of occasionwill rob you of a great deal of patience: give your dispositionsthe reins, and be angry at your pleasures; at the least, if youtake it as a pleasure to you in being so. Say that I linger'd with you at your shop To see the making of her carcanet, And that to-morrow you will bring it home. You promis'd, when you parted with the King, To lay aside life-harming heaviness And entertain a cheerful disposition. Slanders, sir: for the satirical slave says here that old men have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir, th Virtue? a fig! 'Tis in ourselves that we are thus orthus. Ay, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrowMust not be measur'd by his worth, for thenIt hath no end. To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false? OTHELLO. Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions? Lear. Fair cousin! I am greater than a king; For when I was a king, my flatterers Were then but subjects; being now a subject, I have a king here to my flatterer. Some of your function, mistress, Leave procreants alone and shut the door; Cough, or cry "hem," if anybody come. These foils have all a length? [They prepare to play. Good faith, this same young sober-bloodedBoy doth not loue me, nor a man cannotmake him laugh: but that's no maruaile, hee drinkes noWine. [to Edmund] Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine. Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor soold to dote on her for anything. Unless he have a fancy to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, asyou would have it appear he is. Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of Nature'swit. But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth; I would thou hadst told me of another father. These injuries the King now bears will berevenged home; there's part of a power already footed; we mustincline to the King. What in your own part can you say to this? BRABANTIO. To do that office of thine own good will Which tired majesty did make thee offer The resignation of thy state and crown To Henry Bolingbroke. We did, my lord, weeping and commenting Upon the sobbing deer. These differences shall all rest under gage Till Norfolk be repeal'd-repeal'd he shall be And, though mine enemy, restor'd again To all his lands and signories. I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be buriedthy eyes; and moreover, I will go with thee to thy uncle's. My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Alack the heavy day, That I have worn so many winters out, And know not now what name to call myself! O that I were a mockery king of snow, Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke To melt myself away in water drops! Good king, great king, and yet not gre I'll write straight to my sister To hold my very course. My owne Knee? When I was about thy yeeres(Hal) I was not an Eagles Talent in the Waste, I couldhaue crept into any Aldermans Thumbe-Ring: a plagueof sighing and griefe, it blowes a man vp like a Bladder. If he be absent, bring his brother to me; I'll make him find him. Ha, you shallsee now in very sincerity of Feare and Cold heart, will heto the King, and lay open all our proceedings. Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you; you shall knownow that I am in estimation; you shall perceive that a jackguardant cannot office me from my son Coriolanus: guess but by myentertainment with him if thou standest not i' the state ofhanging, Cousin, I thinke thou art enamoredOn his Follies: neuer did I heareOf any Prince so wilde at Liberty. I am not merry, but I do beguile The thing I am by seeming otherwise. I do not know the matter; he is rested on thecase. Provoke him, that he may; for even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualificationshall come into no true taste again but by the displanting ofCassio. A strange beginning'borrowed majesty'! KING JOHN. Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I call'd thee? Beat. Cassio confess'd it, And she did gratify his amorous works With that recognizance and pledge of love Which I first gave her. His life was gentle, and the elements So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, "This was a man!" OCTAVIUS. Touching this vision here,?It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you: For your desire to know what is between us, O?rmaster? as you may. Your voice shall be as strong as any man's In the disposing of new dignities. If the Prince put thee into my Seruicefor any other reason, then to set mee off, why then Ihaue no iudgement. O God, counterfeit? There was never counterfeit ofpassion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it. Enter Caesar, Brutus, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Metellus,Trebonius, Cinna, Antony, Lepidus, Popilius, Publius, and others. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us chase. Trumpets, speak! Alarums. I'll give you a verse to this note that I madeyesterday in despite of my invention. Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you; I thought that all things had been savage here, And therefore put I on the countenance Of stern commandment. None of these rogues and cowards But Ajax is their fool. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling, Drabbing:?ou may go so far. There roar'd the Sea: and Trumpet Clangoursounds. Giue me a Cupof Sack, I am a Rogue if I drunke to day Prin. I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester. All things that you should use to do me wrong Deny their office; only you do lack That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends, Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses. Now, good Aufidius,Were you in my stead, would you have heardA mother less? or granted less, Aufidius?AUFIDIUS. Adam |Carson |Aimee|Echo|Alan|Moore|Albert|Schweitzer|Albert|Einstein|Alec|Baldwin|Alexandra|Paul|Alice|Walker|Alicia|Silverstone|Alison |Lohman |Ally|Sheedy|Alyssa|Milano|Amber|Valletta|Amber |Benson|Amy|Ray|Anastasia|Ashley|Andre |3000|Andreas|Cahling|Croak not, black angel; I have no food for thee. My strange and self-abuseIs the initiate fear that wants hard use:--We are yet but young in deed. Hubert, away with him; imprison him; And on that day at noon whereon he says I shall yield up my crown let him be hang'd. Know, good mother,I had rather be their servant in my wayThan sway with them in theirs. If any wretch have put this in your head, Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse! For if she be not honest, chaste, and true, There's no man happy; the purest of their wives Is foul as slander. Merciful heaven!--What, man! ne'er pull your hat upon your brows;Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speakWhispers the o'er-fraught heart, and bids it break. I'll have the work ta'en out, And give't Iago. Yet you mustbe saying, Marcius is proud; who, in a cheap estimation, is worthall your predecessors since Deucalion; though peradventure someof the best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. To approue my youthfarther, I will not: the truth is, I am onely olde in iudgementand vnderstanding: and he that will caper with meefor a thousand Markes, let him lend me the mony, & haueat him. [within] Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom! Enter Fool [from the hovel]. Who I? I haue beene merry twice and once, erenow Dauy. Nay Hal, is Percy bee aliue, thou getst not mySword; but take my Pistoll if thou wilt Prin. Enter Brutus, Cassius, and their Army; Lucilius, Titinius, Messala, and others. Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans. Why then good-morrow to you all (my Lords:)Haue you read o're the Letters that I sent you? War. Pindarus, Bid our commanders lead their charges off A little from this ground. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow! You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks! You sulph'rous and thought-executing fires, Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head! An But, that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me! The Prince's fool! Ha! it may be I go under that title because Iam merry. O Dowglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thusI neuer had triumphed o're a Scot Dow. Come, heere's the Mappe:Shall wee diuide our Right,According to our three-fold order ta'ne? Mort. If it will please you To show us so much gentry and good-will As to expend your time with us awhile, For the supply and profit of our hope, Your visitation shall receive such thanks As fits a king? remembrance. Thou say'st true Lad: and is not my Hostesse ofthe Tauerne a most sweet Wench? Prin. Things past redress are now with me past care. Nay, it perchance will sparkle in your eyes, And, like a dog that is compell'd to fight, Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on. Grandam, I will pray, If ever I remember to be holy, For your fair safety. But he, sir, had the election; And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof At Rhodes, at Cyprus, and on other grounds Christian and heathen, must be belee'd and calm'd By debitor and creditor. By all the gods that Romans bow before, I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome! Brave son, derived from honorable loins! Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up My mortified spirit. That young swain that you saw here but erewhile, That little cares for buying any thing. Dost thou think I care for asatire or an epigram? No. Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders Prepare to lodge their companies tonight. Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear Is that the rebels have consum'd with fire Our town of Ciceter in Gloucestershire; But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself. Is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of March? LUCIUS. I wish your horses swift and sure of foot;And so I do commend you to their backs. We hear our bloody cousins are bestow'dIn England and in Ireland; not confessingTheir cruel parricide, filling their hearersWith strange invention: but of that to-morrow;When therewithal we shall have cause of stateCraving us jointly. Briefely to this end: Wee are all diseas'd,And with our surfetting, and wanton howres,Haue brought our selues into a burning Feuer,And wee must bleede for it: of which Disease,Our late King Richard (being infected) dy'd. Since when, I pray you, Sir? what, with two Points onyour shoulder? much Pist. For ever will I walk upon my knees, And never see day that the happy sees Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy. I am a Rogue, if I were not at halfe Sword witha dozen of them two houres together. I would you would accept of Grace and Loue Hotsp. Doubt not my Lord, he shall be well oppos'd Arch. I cannot say your worships havedelivered the matter well when I find the ass in compound withthe major part of your syllables; and though I must be content tobear with those that say you are reverend grave men, yet they liedeadly that tell you have good An if I have not, sir, I hope you have; Or else you may return without your money. Away! The tribunes do attend you: arm yourselfTo answer mildly; for they are prepar'dWith accusations, as I hear, more strongThan are upon you yet. Why hopest thou so? 'Tis better hope he is; For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope. The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up Safe at the Centaur, and the heedful slave Is wand'red forth in care to seek me out. My parts, my title, and my perfect soul Shall manifest me rightly. This prophecy Merlin shall make, for I live before his time. James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile? GURNEY. Let us do so, for we are at the stake, And bay'd about with many enemies; And some that smile have in their hearts, I fear, Millions of mischiefs. And, speaking it, he wishtly look'd on me, As who should say 'I would thou wert the man That would divorce this terror from my heart'; Meaning the King at Pomfret. Letters from him?Why comes he not himselfe? Mes. She that so young could give out such a seeming, To seel her father's eyes up close as oak He thought 'twas witchcraftbut I am much to blame; I humbly do beseech you of your pardon For too much loving you. Some of vs loue you well: and euen those someEnuie your great deseruings, and good name,Because you are not of our qualitie,But stand against vs like an Enemie Blunt. Wherefore? For my dinner; I have not din'd to-day. There's millions now alive That nightly lie in those unproper beds Which they dare swear peculiar. His purse is empty already; all? golden words are spent. I have known when there was no music withhim but the drum and the fife; and now had he rather hear thetabor and the pipe. He found it then; I never gave it him. Who, then, shall blameHis pester'd senses to recoil and start,When all that is within him does condemnItself for being there?CAITHNESS. I thank you, sir Exit [Gentleman]. I can call Spirits from the vastie Deepe Hotsp. Faith, and so wee should,Where now remaines a sweet reuersion. Why, how could'st thou know these men inKendall Greene, when it was so darke, thou could'st notsee thy Hand? Come, tell vs your reason: what say'st thouto this? Poin. Heard hee the good newes yet?Tell it him Glo. And will she love him still for prating? Let not thy discreet heart think it. No, forbear; The lethargy must have his quiet course. Master, is this Mistress Satan?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her, Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her, As true hearts cannot bear. He is justly serv?; It is a poison temper? by himself. Utter my thoughts? Why, say they are vile and false; As where's that palace whereinto foul things Sometimes intrude not? Who has a breast so pure, But some uncleanly apprehensions Keep leets and law-days, and in session sit With meditations lawful? OTHE That you do love me, I am nothing jealous; What you would work me to, I have some aim. Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires; Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd, and bold That this our court, infected with their manners, Shows like a riotous inn. O Richard! York is too far gone with grief, Or else he never would compare between KING RICHARD. Hang out our banners on the outward walls;The cry is still, "They come:" our castle's strengthWill laugh a siege to scorn: here let them lieTill famine and the ague eat them up:Were they not forc'd with those that should be ours,We might have met them daMy lord, he? going to his mother? closet: Behind the arras I?l convey myself To hear the process; I?l warrant she?l tax him home: And, as you said, and wisely was it said, ?is meet that some more audience than a mother, Since nature makes them partial,  Let there be no noyse made (my gentle friends)Vnlesse some dull and fauourable handWill whisper Musicke to my wearie Spirit War. 'A bas been a vilethief this seven year; 'a goes up and down like a gentleman. But 'tis a common proof That lowliness is young ambition's ladder, Whereto the climber-upward turns his face; But when he once attains the upmost round, He then unto the ladder turns his back, Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees By which he d Comes the King backe from Wales, my noble L[ord]? Ch. If it do, you shall haue a dozen of Cushionsagaine, you haue but eleuen now. What say'st thou, Mistresse Quickly? Howdoes thy Husband? I loue him well, hee is an honestman Hostesse. To the platform, masters; come, let's set the watch. But come;?Here, as before, never, so help you mercy, How strange or odd soe?r I bear myself,?As I, perchance, hereafter shall think meet To put an antic disposition on,?That you, at such times seeing me, never shall, With arms encumber? thus, or this he Come my Lord, Ile leade you to your Tent Prin. Am I a coward? Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across? Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face? Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i?the throat As deep as to the lungs? who does me this, ha? ?wounds, I should take it: for it cannot be But  What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to Leonato's? Bene. Acquaintmy daughter no further with anything you know than comes fromher demand out of the letter. I think he be transform'd into a beast; For I can nowhere find him like a man. Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of beauty. For my part, I have walk'd about the streets, Submitting me unto the perilous night, And thus unbraced, Casca, as you see, Have bared my bosom to the thunderstone; And when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open The breast of heaven, I did present myse Hark, how these instruments summon to supper! The messengers of Venice stay the meat. Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot; Right noble is thy merit, well I wot. The Duke does greet you, general, And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance, Even on the instant. All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players; They have their exits and their entrances; And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages. You are too great, to be (by me) gainsaid:Your Spirit is too true, your Feares too certaine North. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia, And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet It is our trick; nature her custom holds, Let shame say what it will: when these are gone, The woman will be out. Enter NORTHUMBERLAND attended NORTHUMBERLAND. All friends shall taste The wages of their virtue, and all foes The cup of their deservings. And, madam, there is order ta'en for you: With all swift speed you must away to France. The Forest of ArdenEnter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and two or three LORDS, like foresters DUKE SENIOR. My lord, his ma jesty commended him to you by young Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time. Art thou not, fatal vision, sensibleTo feeling as to sight? or art thou butA dagger of the mind, a false creation,Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?I see thee yet, in form as palpableAs this which now I draw. It is my son, young Harry Percy, Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever. How easy dost thou take all England up! From forth this morsel of dead royalty The life, the right, and truth of all this realm Is fled to heaven; and England now is left To tug and scamble, and to part by th' teeth The unowed interest of proud-swelling Call me a fool; Trust not my reading nor my observation, Which with experimental seal doth warrant The tenure of my book; trust not my age, My reverence, calling, nor divinity, If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here Under some biting error. [Exeunt Don Pedro and Claudio. Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face: These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his; This little abstract doth contain that large Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume. My life upon her faith! Honest Iago, My Desdemona must I leave to thee. Very well! go to! I cannot go to, man; nor 'tis notvery well. Yet, I beseech you, If you think fit, or that it may be done, Give me advantage of some brief discourse With Desdemona alone. Besides, to be demanded of a sponge!?hat replication should be made by the son of a king? Ros. ) Come,giue me some Sack, Si fortune me tormente, sperato me contente. Go you and tell my daughter I would speak with her. I know not whether Heauen will haue it so,For some displeasing seruice I haue done;That in his secret Doome, out of my Blood,Hee'le breede Reuengement, and a Scourge for me:But thou do'st in thy passages of Life,Make me beleeue, that thou art onely mark'If there be more, more woful, hold it in; For I am almost ready to dissolve, Hearing of this. Stand thee close then under this penthouse, for itdrizzles rain, and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee. A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to be sad. Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered yourletter. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear In the rare semblance that I lov'd it first. Break not your sleeps for that:?ou must not think That we are made of stuff so flat and dull That we can let our beard be shook with danger, And think it pastime. <ExeuntSCENE 3The martEnter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSEANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Mary, beshrew my hand If it should give your age such cause of fear. Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge, And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land, Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion, Lord of thy presence and no land beside? BASTARD. Then your hose should be ungarter'd, your bonnet unbanded,your sleeve unbutton'd, your shoe untied, and every thing aboutyou demonstrating a careless desolation. He had no Legges, that practic'd not his Gate:And speaking thicke (which Nature made his blemish)Became the Accents of the Valiant. If I were mad I should forget my son, Or madly think a babe of clouts were he. Another word, Menenius,I will not hear thee speak. O curse of marriage, That we can call these delicate creatures ours, And not their appetites! I had rather be a toad, And live upon the vapor of a dungeon, Than keep a corner in the thing I love For others' uses. Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face? BRUTUS. Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in rheum. The princes, France and Burgundy, Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love, Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn, And here are to be answer'd. What, courage, man! What though care kill'd a cat, thouhast mettle enough in thee to kill care. Or of a courtier, which could say ?ood morrow, sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord??This might be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord such-a-one? horse when he meant to beg it,?ight it not? Hor. Feare you not, that if wee can make our PeaceVpon such large termes, and so absolute,As our Conditions shall consist vpon,Our Peace shall stand as firme as Rockie Mountaines Mow. Yea, or the Drone of a Lincolnshire Bagpipe Prin. I fear I wrong the honorable men Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it. I conjure you, by that which you profess,--Howe'er you come to know it,--answer me:Though you untie the winds, and let them fightAgainst the churches; though the yesty wavesConfound and swallow navigation up;Though bladed corn be lodg'd, and trees blown O, how it ern'd my heart, when I beheld, In London streets, that coronation-day, When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary That horse that thou so often hast bestrid, That horse that I so carefully have dress'd! KING RICHARD. Enter Lodovico, Desdemona, and Attendants. You doe not counsaile well:You speake it out of feare, and cold heart Vern. Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine Worth seizure do we seize into our hands, Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother's mouth Of what we think against thee. For my brother,I think he holds you well and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent andlabour ill bestowed! Pedro. What are you here that cry so grievously? CASSIO. Thy wish was Father (Harry) to that thought:I stay too long by thee, I wearie thee. Enter the BASTARD and PETER OF POMFRET Now! What says the world To your proceedings? Do not seek to stuff My head with more ill news, for it is fun. I would have daff'd all other respects and made her half myself. I could be well moved, if I were as you; If I could pray to move, prayers would move me; But I am constant as the northern star, Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality There is no fellow in the firmament. My friend is dead, 'tis done at your request; But let her live. Why, man, they did make love to this employment; They are not near my conscience; their defeat Does by their own insinuation grow: ?is dangerous when the baser nature comes Between the pass and fell incensed points Of mighty opposites. You must think, if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you. Publius, good cheer, There is no harm intended to your person, Nor to no Roman else. Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal; but love noman in good earnest, nor no further in sport neither than withsafety of a pure blush thou mayst in honour come off again. There is nothing done, ifhe return the conqueror. Exeunt Othello andDesdemona. I will drain him dry as hay:Sleep shall neither night nor dayHang upon his pent-house lid;He shall live a man forbid:Weary seven-nights nine times nineShall he dwindle, peak, and pine:Though his bark cannot be lost,Yet it shall be tempest-tost. Enter a Herald with a proclamation; people following. She's like a liar gone to burning hell; 'Twas I that kill'd her. You speak o' the peopleAs if you were a god, to punish, notA man of their infirmity. 'I took no more pains forthose thanks than you took pains to thank me. Your voices: for your voices I have fought;Watch'd for your voices; for your voices bearOf wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice sixI have seen and heard of; for your voices haveDone many things, some less, some more: your voices: Indeed, I would be cons Thou wilt not? thouwilt not? Do, do thou Rogue: Do thou Hempseed Page. May these same instruments which you profaneNever sound more! When drums and trumpets shallI' the field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be Made all of false-fac'd soothing. Who knowes, on whom Fortune would then haue smil'd?But if your Father had beene Victor there,Hee ne're had borne it out of Couentry. You shall not in your funeral speech blame us, But speak all good you can devise of Caesar, And say you do't by our permission, Else shall you not have any hand at all About his funeral. What's the news in Rome? I have anote from the Volscian state, to find you out there; you havewell saved me a day's journey. Come you thinne Thing:Come you Rascall Off. I can speake English, Lord, as well as you:For I was trayn'd vp in the English Court;Where, being but young, I framed to the HarpeMany an English Dittie, louely well,And gaue the Tongue a helpefull Ornament;A Vertue that was neuer seene in you Hotsp. This istrue, on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us. There's not a man I meet but doth saluteme As if I were their well-acquainted friend; And every one doth call me by my name. Thus hath he sworn, And I with him, and many moe with me, Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury; Even on that altar where we swore to you Dear amity and everlasting love. The Second Part of Henry the Fourth, Containing hisDeath: andthe Coronation of King Henry the Fift. He's worth more sorrow,And that I'll spend for him. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege, I hold my duty, as I hold my soul, Both to my God and to my gracious king: And I do think,?r else this brain of mine Hunts not the trail of policy so sure As it hath us? to do,?hat I have found The very cause  There is division betwixt theDukes, and a worse matter than that. 'Gainst nature still:Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin upThine own life's means!--Then 'tis most like,The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth. Sit, Coriolanus; never shame to hearWhat you have nobly done. Haste me to know?, that I, with wings as swift As meditation or the thoughts of love, May sweep to my revenge. May they perceive's intent! He will require themAs if he did contemn what he requestedShould be in them to give. I neuer dealt better since I was a man: all would not doe. Alas, how fiery and how sharp he looks!COURTEZAN. Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know; And as my love is siz?, my fear is so: Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear; Where little fears grow great, great love grows there. The one of them imports The death of Cassio to be undertook By Roderigo. I marvel why I answer'd not again; But that's all one: omittance is no quittance. And when I liv'd I was your other wife; [Unmasks. Nor I neither by this heavenly light; I might do't aswell i' the dark. Nay, good lieutenant; I pray you, sir, hold your hand. Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes? HUBERT. If she be a traitor, Why so am I: we still have slept together, Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together; And wheresoe'er we went, like Juno's swans, Still we went coupled and inseparable. My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd, And more convenient is he for my hand Than for your lady's. This Doll Teare-sheet should be some Rode Poin. Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forthto-day? And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?ADRIANA. Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou liv'st To walk where any honest men resort. Benedictus? why benedictus? You have some moral in this 'benedictus. O, full of careful business are his looks! Uncle, for God's sake, speak comfortable words. He is drown'd in the brook; look but in, and you shallsee him. This counter-caster, He, in good time, must his lieutenant be, And IGod bless the mark!his Moorship's ancient. What! in a town of war, Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear, To manage private and domestic quarrel, In night, and on the court and guard of safety! 'Tis monstrous. She that I spake of, our great captain's captain, Left in the conduct of the bold Iago, Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts A se'nnight's speed. Good my lord! [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. --Toad, that under cold stone,Days and nights has thirty-oneSwelter'd venom sleeping got,Boil thou first i' the charmed pot!ALL. I would not hear your enemy say so; Nor shall you do my ear that violence, To make it truster of your own report Against yourself: I know you are no truant. His weary joints would gladly rise, I know; Our knees still kneel till to the ground they grow. And thou followd'st him like a Church: thouwhorson little tydie Bartholmew Bore-pigge, when wiltthou leaue fighting on dayes, and foyning on nights, andbegin to patch vp thine old Body for Heauen?Enter the Prince and Poines disguis'd. Enter the BASTARD with AUSTRIA'S head BASTARD. Why thou Globe of sinfull Continents, whata life do'st thou lead? Fal. ' We that are true lovers run into strangecapers; but as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in lovemortal in folly. Hast any philosophyin thee, shepherd? CORIN. If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue ofyour office, to be no true man; and for such kind of men, the lessyou meddle or make with them, why, the more your honesty. I can see yet without spectacles, and I see no suchmatter. So shall I liue, to speake my Fathers words:Happy am I, that haue a man so bold,That dares do Iustice, on my proper Sonne;And no lesse happy, hauing such a Sonne,That would deliuer vp his Greatnesse so,Into the hands of Iustice. I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had as lief have been myself alone. If the matter of this paper be certain, you have mighty business in hand. The French, my lord; men's mouths are full of it; Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury, With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire, And others more, going to seek the grave Of Arthur, whom they say is kill'd to-night On your suggestion. Marry, God forbid! Worst in this royal presence may I speak, Yet best beseeming me to speak the truth. Sir, praise me not;My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well;The blood I drop is rather physicalThan dangerous to me: to Aufidius thusI will appear, and fight. O, giue me alwayesa little, leane, old, chopt, bald Shot. It ill beseems this presence to cry aim To these ill-tuned repetitions. A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get himout o' the house. You know since Pentecost the sum is due, And since I have not much importun'd you; Nor now I had not, but that I am bound To Persia, and want guilders for my voyage. Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house, I will discharge my bond, and thank you too. So he doth you, my Lord, and sayde this otherday, You ought him a thousand pound Prince. Is not this true? Enter Roderigo. Thou hast never in thy lifeShow'd thy dear mother any courtesy;When she,--poor hen,--fond of no second brood,Has cluck'd thee to the wars, and safely home,Loaden with honour. And how, Audrey, am I the man yet? Doth my simplefeature content you? AUDREY. Ten masts at each make not the altitude Which thou hast perpendicularly fell. Fare thee well at once! The glowworm shows the matin to be near, And ?ins to pale his uneffectual fire: Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me. I have of late,?ut wherefore I know not,?ost all my mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth, seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the air, look O, me alone! Make you a sword of me?If these shows be not outward, which of youBut is four Volsces? none of you but isAble to bear against the great AufidiusA shield as hard as his. This England never did, nor never shall, Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror, But when it first did help to wound itself. Briefness and fortune, work! Brother, a word! Descend! Brother, I say! Enter Edgar. Two nights together had these gentlemen, Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch In the dead vast and middle of the night, Been thus encounter?. Go to: I stand the push of your one thing, thatyou'l tell Prin. Forever and forever farewell, Brutus! If we do meet again, we'll smile indeed; If not, 'tis true this parting was well made. Must he be depos'd? The King shall be contented. O heauen, they did me too much iniury,That euer said I hearkned to your death. But now the blood of twenty thousand men Did triumph in my face, and they are fled; And, till so much blood thither come again, Have I not reason to look pale and dead? All souls that will be safe, fly from my side; For time hath set a blot upon my prid Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys. My plenteous joys,Wanton in fulness, seek to hide themselvesIn drops of sorrow. Mine eyes do itch; Doth that bode weeping? EMILIA. These often bathed she in her fluxive eyes, And often kissed, and often 'gan to tear; Cried, 'O false blood, thou register of lies, What unapproved witness dost thou bear! Ink would have seemed more black and damned here! This said, in top of rage the l I could well wish courtesy would invent someother custom of entertainment. Meantime but ask What you would have reform'd that is not well, And well shall you perceive how willingly I will both hear and grant you your requests. My lord, Before I freely speak my mind herein, You shall not only take the sacrament To bury mine intents, but also to effect Whatever I shall happen to devise. If heart's presages be not vain, We three here part that ne'er shall meet again. Oh my most worshipfull Lord, and't please yourGrace, I am a poore widdow of Eastcheap, and he is arrestedat my suit Ch. Revenges burn in them; for their dear causesWould to the bleeding and the grim alarmExcite the mortified man. Alas, alas, put vp your naked Weapons,put vp your naked Weapons Dol. By Jupiter, forgot:--I am weary; yea, my memory is tir'd. Pray be counsell'd;I have a heart as little apt as yours,But yet a brain that leads my use of angerTo better vantage. So, fare you well at once, for Brutus' tongue Hath almost ended his life's history. YOU are deceiv'd, sir; we kept time, we lost notour time. Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart, Here didst thou fall, and here thy hunters stand, Sign'd in thy spoil, and crimson'd in thy Lethe. Are these things then Necessities?Then let vs meete them like Necessities;And that same word, euen now cryes out on vs:They say, the Bishop and NorthumberlandAre fiftie thousand strong War. The sight is dismal; And our affairs from England come too late: The ears are senseless that should give us hearing, To tell him his commandment is fulfill? That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead: Where should we have our thanks? Hor. But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born, And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments Of many desperate studies by his uncle, Whom he reports to be a great magician, Obscured in the circle of this forest. Thanks, sir: the like to you![Exeunt Banquo and Fleance. Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down Where I left reading? Here it is, I think. I will neuer beare a base minde: if it be my destinie,so: if it be not, so: no man is too good to serue hisPrince: and let it goe which way it will, he that dies thisyeere, is quit for the next Bard. The copy of your speed is learn'd by them, For when you should be told they do prepare, The tidings comes that they are all arriv'd. You should ask me what time o' day; there's no clockin the forest. Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels whenshe put 'em i' th' paste alive. Now hear our English King; For thus his royalty doth speak in me. I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure I count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends; And as my fortune ripens with thy love, It shall be still thy true love's recompense. I hate the Moor, And it is thought abroad that 'twixt my sheets He has done my office. No; bear it with you, lest I come not timeenough. Wherefore should I Stand in the plague of custom, and permit The curiosity of nations to deprive me, For that I am some twelve or fourteen moonshines Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base? When my dimensions are as well compact, My mind as gener I do loveMy country's good with a respect more tender,More holy and profound, than mine own life,My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase,And treasure of my loins; then if I wouldSpeak that,--SICINIUS. Are you not hurt i'th' Groyne? me thought heemade a shrewd Thrust at your Belly Fal. Therefore be merry, Cassio, For thy solicitor shall rather die Than give thy cause away. In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living shallcome over it; for in most comely truth thou deservest it. Before OLIVER'S houseEnter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting ORLANDO. Madam, my former suit: I do beseech you That by your virtuous means I may again Exist and be a member of his love Whom I with all the office of my heart Entirely honor. 'His browny locks did hang in crooked curls; And every light occasion of the wind Upon his lips their silken parcels hurls. 126 I do not know from what part of the world I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet. Ever note, Lucilius, When love begins to sicken and decay It useth an enforced ceremony. Honest Bardolfe, welcome: If thou want'st anything, and wilt not call, beshrew thy heart. Re-enter EXECUTIONERS, With cord, irons, etc. What is the matter here? MONTANO. What news from Oxford? Do these justs and triumphs hold? AUMERLE. Where is the Crowne? who tooke it from myPillow? War. Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally; I pray you pass with your best violence: I am afeard you make a wanton of me. People and senators, be not affrighted, Fly not, stand still; ambition's debt is paid. Speak truly on thy knighthood and thy oath; As so defend thee heaven and thy valour! MOWBRAY. Exeunt DUKE and LORDS CELIA. Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land! KING JOHN. Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius! Dost thou think I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n nameCoriolanus, in Corioli?--You lords and heads o' the state, perfidiouslyHe has betray'd your business, and given up,For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,--ILet all the Teares, that should bedew my HearseBe drops of Balme, to sanctifie thy head:Onely compound me with forgotten dust. Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence! Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will. The tempest in my mind Doth from my senses take all feeling else Save what beats there. O mistress, mistress, shift and save yourself! My master and his man are both broke loose, Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor, Whose beard they have sing'd off with brands of fire; And ever, as it blaz'd, they threw on him Great pails of puddle Go you to the Prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hathwronged his honour in marrying the renowned Claudio (whose estimationdo you mightily hold up) to a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero. Consider you what services he has done for his country?FIRST CITIZEN. Enter the BASTARD BASTARD. Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with akiss and let not him speak neither. There's villanous Newes abroad; heere was Sir IohnBraby from your Father; you must goe to the Court inthe Morning. Please it your GraceTo goe to bed, vpon my Life (my Lord)The Pow'rs that you alreadie haue sent forth,Shall bring this Prize in very easily. And then I stole all Courtesie from Heauen,And drest my selfe in such Humilitie,That I did plucke Allegeance from mens hearts,Lowd Showts and Salutations from their mouthes,Euen in the presence of the Crowned King. He searcheth his Pockets, and findeth certaine Papers. That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee Thou gavest to Cassio. This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit, Which gives men stomach to digest his words With better appetite. Poor Queen, so that thy state might be no worse, I would my skill were subject to thy curse. Now know you, Casca, I have moved already Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans To undergo with me an enterprise Of honorable-dangerous consequence; And I do know by this, they stay for me In Pompey's Porch. It is apparent foul-play; and 'tis shame That greatness should so grossly offer it. I will not hence and leave my husband here; And ill it doth beseem your holiness To separate the husband and the wife. He is as like thee as a man may be Not like to me, or any of my kin, And yet I love him. --Come, let's go:Leave this faint puling and lament as I do,In anger, Juno-like. Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:Till Birnam wood remove to DunsinaneI cannot taint with fear. MarkI say, instantly; and carry it so As I have set it down. Sirrah, your father's dead;And what will you do now? How will you live?SON. I will take your counsaile:And were these inward Warres once out of hand,Wee would (deare Lords) vnto the Holy-Land. Faine would I goe to meet the Arch-bishop,But many thousand Reasons hold me backe. Down with him, thief! They draw on bothsides. Winter's not gone yet, if the wild geese fly that way. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with this special observance, that you o?rstep not the modesty of nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing, w The bay trees in our country are all wither'd, And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven; The pale-fac'd moon looks bloody on the earth, And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change; Rich men look sad, and ruffians dance and leap The one in fear t We'll send Mark Antony to the Senate House, And he shall say you are not well today. What's the matter, lady? EMILIA. I have as much of this in art as you, But yet my nature could not bear it so. These kind of knaves I know which in this plainness Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends Than twenty silly-ducking observants That stretch their duties nicely. [The music plays] Music do I hear? Ha, ha! keep time. He did command me to call timely on him:I have almost slipp'd the hour. What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst praise me? IAGO. Come, come; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep Into the purse of rich prosperity As Lewis himself. I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and thengo I toward Arragon. Tear him for his bad verses, tear him for hisbad verses. Three or four wenches where I stood cried, "Alas, good soul!" andforgave him with all their hearts. Pr'ythee, see there! behold! look! lo! how say you?--Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too. What? a yong knaue and beg? Is there not wars? Isthere not imployment? Doth not the K[ing]. No, it is Casca, one incorporate To our attempts. Must I go show them my unbarb'd sconce? must IWith my base tongue, give to my noble heartA lie, that it must bear? Well, I will do't:Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it,And throw't against the Now lies he there, And none so poor to do him reverence. I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay; If any ship put out, then straight away. I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter andthe Moor are now making the beast with two backs. Sir, I am made Of the selfsame metal that my sister is, And prize me at her worth. Call it my fear That keeps you in the house and not your own. '"Lo, this device was sent me from a nun, Or sister sanctified, of holiest note, Which late her noble suit in court did shun, Whose rarest havings made the blossoms dote; For she was sought by spirits of richest coat, But kept cold distance, and did the Hamlet return? shall know you are come home: We?l put on those shall praise your excellence And set a double varnish on the fame The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together And wager on your heads: he, being remiss, Most generous, and free from a You all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown, Which he did thrice refuse. Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate; and your affections areA sick man's appetite, who desires most thatWhich would increase his evil. --It is heldThat valour is the chiefest virtue, andMost dignifies the haver: if it be,The man I speak of cannot in the worldBe singly counterpois'd. We did traine him on,And his corruption being tane from vs,We as the Spring of all, shall pay for all:Therefore good Cousin, let not Harry knowIn any case, the offer of the King Ver. Be lion-mettled, proud; and take no careWho chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be, untilGreat Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hillShall come against him. Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for mysimple true judgment? or would you have me speak after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex? Claud. It pleas'd your Maiesty, to turne your lookesOf Fauour, from my Selfe, and all our House;And yet I must remember you my Lord,We were the first, and dearest of your Friends:For you, my staffe of Office did I breakeIn Richards time, and poasted day and ni This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are topresent the Prince's own person. Good Lord! you use this dalliance toexcuse Your breach of promise to the Porpentine; I should have chid you for not bringing it, But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl. O, that's a brave man! He writes brave verses, speaksbrave words, swears brave oaths, and breaks them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of his lover; as a puny tilter,that spurs his horse but on one side, breaks his staff like anoble goose. Good nuncle, in, and ask thydaughters blessing! Here's a night pities nether wise men nor fools. Exit [Cornwall, led by Regan]. With Pointz, and other his continuall followers King. Why, he hackt it with his Dagger, and said, heewould sweare truth out of England, but hee would makeyou beleeue it was done in fight, and perswaded vs to doethe like Bard. Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa!let him trot by. And 'twere not as good a deede as todrinke, to turne True-man, and to leaue these Rogues, Iam the veriest Varlet that euer chewed with a Tooth. Look, where he comes! Re-enter Othello. Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy? PERCY. I pray you tell your brother how well I counterfeited. Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter? Edm. Gone to be married! Gone to swear a peace! False blood to false blood join'd! Gone to be friends! Shall Lewis have Blanch, and Blanch those provinces? It is not so; thou hast misspoke, misheard; Be well advis'd, tell o'er thy tale again. What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doubletand hose and leaves off his wit! Enter Constables [Dogberry and Verges, with the Watch, leading] Conrade and Borachio. As confident as is the falcon's flight Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight. These fellows have some soul, And such a one do I profess myself. The bounty and the benison of heaven To boot, and boot! Enter [Oswald the] Steward. Ile make it greater, ere I part from thee,And all the budding Honors on thy Crest,Ile crop, to make a Garland for my head Hot. Thy state is the more gracious; for ?is a vice to know him. It is nota confident brow, nor the throng of wordes, that comewith such (more then impudent) sawcines from you, canthrust me from a leuell consideration, I know you ha' practis'dvpon the easie-yeelding spirit of this woman Host. If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it shouldbe otherwise. When I came back For this was briefI found them close together, At blow and thrust, even as again they were When you yourself did part them. By heaven, I had rather coin my heart And drop my blood for drachmas than to wring From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash By any indirection. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her favours? Guil. Is it but thisa tardiness in nature Which often leaves the history unspoke That it intends to do? My Lord of Burgundy, What say you to the lady? Love's not love When it is mingled with regards that stands Aloof from th' entire point. Ay, but, lady, That policy may either last so long, Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet, Or breed itself so out of circumstances, That I being absent and my place supplied, My general will forget my love and service. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I love passing well. Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and I gave him usefor it--a double heart for his single one. On this Ascension-day, remember well, Upon your oath of service to the Pope, Go I to make the French lay down their arms. Make your own purpose, How in my strength you please. I protest Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence, Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune, Thy valour and thy heartthou art a traitor; False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father; Conspirant 'gainst this high illustrious prince; And fr --We'll attend you there:Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceedIn our first way. For a taste: If a hart do lack a hind, Let him seek out Rosalinde. Of your philosophy you make no use, If you give place to accidental evils. Now comes in the sweetest Morsell of thenight, and wee must hence, and leaue it vnpickt. We?l e?n to? like French falconers, fly at anything we see: we?l have a speech straight: come, give us a taste of your quality: come, a passionate speech. Tullus Aufidius,The second name of men, obeys his pointsAs if he were his officer:--desperationIs all the policy, strength, and defence,That Rome can make against them. There is besides in Roderigo's letter, How he upbraids Iago, that he made him Brave me upon the watch, whereon it came That I was cast. Trumpet answers within. Why, God will send more if the man will be thankful. Enter CHARLES CHARLES. My dear lord, You know the fiery quality of the Duke, How unremovable and fix'd he is In his own course. I vnderstand thy Lookes: that pretty WelshWhich thou powr'st down from these swelling Heauens,I am too perfect in: and but for shame,In such a parley should I answere thee. Doe thou stand for my Father, and examine meevpon the particulars of my Life Falst. They'llhave me whipp'd for speaking true; thou'lt have me whipp'd forlying; and sometimes I am whipp'd for holding my peace. And daily new exactions are devis'd, As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what; But what, a God's name, doth become of this? NORTHUMBERLAND. Say thou 'no,' This sword, this arm, and my best spirits are bent To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak, Thou liest. I meane, thou shalthaue the hanging of the Theeues, and so become a rareHangman Fal. Shall the Sonne of England proue a Theefe, andtake Purses? a question to be askt. Tell me, was he arrested on a band?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Let him be regardedAs the most noble corse that ever heraldDid follow to his um. Then am I the prisoner, and his bed my jail; from the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supplythe place for your labour. I hope you will consider what is spoke Comes from my love. But look to it: Find out thy brother wheresoe'er he is; Seek him with candle; bring him dead or living Within this twelvemonth, or turn thou no more To seek a living in our territory. No, hath not? Rosalind lacks, then, the love Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one. And further, I haue learn'd,The King himselfe in person hath set forth,Or hither-wards intended speedily,With strong and mightie preparation Hotsp. Let nobody blame him; his scorn I approve-" Nay, that's not next. Thou'dst shun a bear; But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea, Thou'dst meet the bear i' th' mouth. "Sing willow, willow, willow-" Prithee, hie thee; he'll come anon [Sings. Peace (good Dol) doe not speake like a Deathshead:doe not bid me remember mine end Dol. I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point,With lustier maintenance then I did looke forOf such an vngrowne Warriour Prin. Are you there, wife? You might have come before. An honest man sir,is able to speake for himselfe, when a Knaue is not. Friends all but now, even now, In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom Devesting them for bed; and then, but now (As if some planet had unwitted men), Swords out, and tilting one at other's breast, In opposition bloody. You haue deceiu'd our trust,And made vs doffe our easie Robes of Peace,To crush our old limbes in vngentle Steele:This is not well, my Lord, this is not well. I would have told you of good wrestling, which you have lost the sight of. Excepting one, I would he were the best In all this presence that hath mov'd me so. Come, you look paler and paler; pray you draw homewards. It seems his sleeps were hind'red by thy railing, And thereof comes it that his head is light. Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee speak! [Exit Ghost. [Coming forward] Sweet masters, be patient; for yourfather's remembrance, be at accord. What neuer-dying Honor hath he got,Against renowned Dowglas? whose high Deedes,Whose hot Incursions, and great Name in Armes,Holds from all Souldiers chiefe Maioritie,And Militarie Title Capitall. Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm Invades us to the skin. Peace!We need not put new matter to his charge:What you have seen him do and heard him speak,Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,Opposing laws with strokes, and here defyingThose whose great power must try him; even this,So criminal and in such capWould you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?FIRST CITIZEN. I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;Question enrages him: at once, good-night:--Stand not upon the order of your going,But go at once. As the time, theplace, and the condition of this country stands, I could heartilywish this had not befallen; but since it is as it is, mend it foryour own good. O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear, That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast! Or, if misfortune miss the first career, Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom That they may break his foaming courser's back And throw the rider headlong in t Thy rage shall burn thee up, and thou shalt turn To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire. If I speak like myselfin this, let him be whipp'd that first finds it so. France is a bawd to Fortune and King John That strumpet Fortune, that usurping John! Tell me, thou fellow, is not France forsworn? Envenom him with words, or get thee gone And leave those woes alone which I alone Am bound to under-bear. What thinke you CozeOf this young Percies pride? The PrisonersWhich he in this aduenture hath surpriz'd,To his owne vse he keepes, and sends me wordI shall haue none but Mordake Earle of Fife West. --Come, let us go:This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;His wife is in Corioli, and his child Like him by chance. O good Iago, What shall I do to win my lord again? Good friend, go to him, for by this light of heaven, I know not how I lost him. And that were much he should, for he is given To sports, to wildness, and much company. Come, Ile drinke no Proofes, nor no Bullets: Iwill drinke no more then will doe me good, for no manspleasure, I Pist. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards, Am I to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle. The instances that second marriage move Are base respects of thrift, but none of love. So, sir, heartily wellmet, and most glad of your company. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou! Pol. Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil,adieu; My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet! Where'er I wander, boast of this I can: Though banish'd, yet a trueborn English man. I have seen drunkards Do more than this in sport. I thank you for this profit, and from hence I'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense. 'Tis Cinna, I do know him by his gait; He is a friend. Mother, for love of grace, Lay not that flattering unction to your soul That not your trespass, but my madness speaks: It will but skin and film the ulcerous place, Whilst rank corruption, mining all within, Infects unseen. Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,She strike upon the bell. Happy in that we are not over-happy; On fortune? cap we are not the very button. Prince Henry, afterwards Crowned King Henrie the Fift. These letters give, Iago, to the pilot, And by him do my duties to the Senate. Now neighbor-Confines, purge you of your Scum:Haue you a Ruffian that will sweare? drinke? dance?Reuell the night? Rob? Murder? and commitThe oldest sinnes, the newest kinde of wayes?Be happy, he will trouble you no more:England, shall double gill'd, hisHa, ha! How vilely doth this cynic rhyme! BRUTUS. But how if Honour pricke me off when I comeon? How then? Can Honour set too a legge? No: or anarme? No: Or take away the greefe of a wound? No. Why Hal? thou know'st, as thou art but a man, Idare: but, as thou art a Prince, I feare thee, as I feare theroaring of the Lyons Whelpe Prince. This once again, but that your Highness pleas'd, Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before, And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off, The faiths of men ne'er stained with revolt; Fresh expectation troubled not the land With any long'd-for change  Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland, What says King Bolingbroke? Will his Majesty Give Richard leave to live till Richard die? You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay. O, thou art a perpetuall Triumph, an euerlastingBone-fire-Light: thou hast saued me a thousandMarkes in Linkes and Torches, walking with thee in theNight betwixt Tauerne and Tauerne: But the Sack thatthou hast drunke me, would haue bought me Lights asgo With her I liv'd in joy; our wealth increas'd By prosperous voyages I often made To Epidamnum; till my factor's death, And the great care of goods at random left, Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse: From whom my absence was not six months old,  A man may, if he were of a fearful heart,stagger in this attempt; for here we have no temple but the wood, no assembly but horn-beasts. Exeunt all but the ABBOT OF WESTMINSTER, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, and AUMERLE ABBOT. Will your Lordship lend mee a thousand pound,to furnish me forth? Iust. [Kneels] Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace! DUCHESS. Perhaps some merchant hath invited him, And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner; Good sister, let us dine, and never fret. Paddock calls:--anon:--Fair is foul, and foul is fair:Hover through the fog and filthy air. O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe! Exit Silvius ROSALIND. Which is the villain? Let me see his eyes, That, when I note another man like him, I may avoid him. I Will debate this matter at more leisure, And teach your ears to list me with more heed. I say she never did invent this letter: This is a man's invention, and his hand. But if that I am I, then well I know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine, Nor to her bed no homage do I owe; Far more, far more, to you do I decline. Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer?? It will be laid to us, whose providence Should have kept short, restrain?, and out of haunt 109110 This mad young man. Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee, And mark my greeting well; for what I speak My body shall make good upon this earth, Or my divine soul answer it in heaven Thou art a traitor and a miscreant, Too good to be so, and too bad to live, Since the more His beard was as white as snow, All flaxen was his poll: He is gone, he is gone, And we cast away moan: God ha?mercy on his soul! And of all Christian souls, I pray God. Frateretto calls me, and tells me Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness. Think with thyself,How more unfortunate than all living womenAre we come hither: since that thy sight, which shouldMake our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance with comforts,Constrains them weep, and shake with fear and sorrow;Making the mother, wife, and  Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my swordI'll prove the lie thou speak'st. Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power, How quickly should you speed! CASSIO. Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me To this submission. Sir, I had thought, by making this well known unto you, To have found a safe redress, but now grow fearful, By what yourself, too, late have spoke and done, That you protect this course, and put it on By your allowance; which if you should, the fault Wo But since he hathServ'd well for Rome,--CORIOLANUS. Uncle, give me your hands; nay, dry your eyes: Tears show their love, but want their remedies. Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an ass. Why, the wrong is but a wrong i' the world; and havingthe world for your labor, 'tis a wrong in your own world, and you might quickly make it right. What then?--'Fore me, this fellow speaks!--what then? what then?FIRST CITIZEN. That very hour, and in the self-same inn, A mean woman was delivered Of such a burden, male twins, both alike. Your brother the bastard is fled from Messina. Thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides and leftnothing i' th' middle. [Discovering himself] Proceed, proceed; I'll give her. Enter Northumberland, his Ladie, and Harrie Percies Ladie. Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit. You shall not beThe grave of your deserving; Rome must knowThe value of her own: 'twere a concealmentWorse than a theft, no less than a traducement,To hide your doings; and to silence thatWhich, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,Would seem but modeEre long you are like to hear (If you dare venture in your own behalf) A mistress's command. A footra for the World, and Worldlings base,I speake of Affrica, and Golden ioyes Fal. Call for the Musicke in the other Roome King. Ay, as an ostler, that for the poorest pieceWill bear the knave by the volume. My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence; For I do see the cruel pangs of death Right in thine eye. Me believe it! You may as soon make her that you love believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to do than toconfess she does. God save your Grace! I do beseech your Majesty, To have some conference with your Grace alone. How? Poore? Looke vpon his Face: What callyou Rich? Let them coyne his Nose, let them coyne hisCheekes, Ile not pay a Denier. From this time Be something scanter of your maiden presence; Set your entreatments at a higher rate Than a command to parley. Like a dull actor now,I have forgot my part and I am out,Even to a full disgrace. 'So many have, that never touched his hand, Sweetly supposed them mistress of his heart. You must away to Court, Sir, presently,A dozen Captaines stay at doore for you Falst. Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio And looks not on his evils. But all's too weak;For brave Macbeth,--well he deserves that name,--Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,Which smok'd with bloody execution,Like valor's minion,Carv'd out his passag tTill he fac'd the slave;And ne'er shook hands, nor bade farew Ay, worthy Menenius, and with most prosperous approbation. Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all, Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves, And when I send for you, come hither mask'd. I saw her hand; she has a leathern hand, A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands; She has a huswife's handbut that's no matter. I haue fowndrednine score and odde Postes: and heere (trauell-taintedas I am) haue, in my pure and immaculate Valour, takenSir Iohn Colleuile of the Dale, a most furious Knight, andvalorous Enemie: But what of that? hee saw mee, andyeelded: that I may i Let's hear our tribune: peace!--Speak, speak, speak. I shall not need transport my words by you; Here comes his Grace in person. The son of Duncan,From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth,Lives in the English court and is receiv'dOf the most pious Edward with such graceThat the malevolence of fortune nothingTakes from his high respect: thither MacduffIs gone to pray the holy kA kind good-night to all![Exeunt all Lords and Atendants. I did so, and take heed on't; Make it a darling like your precious eye; To lose't or give't away were such perdition As nothing else could match. Meeting two such wealsmen as you are,--I cannot call youLycurguses,--if the drink you give me touch my palate adversely,I make a crooked face at it. Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe, About her lank and all o?rteemed loins, A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;?Who this had seen, with tongue in  No, misery makes sport to mock itself: Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me, I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee. But these mine eyes, saw him in bloody state,Rend'ring faint quittance (wearied, and out-breath'd)To Henrie Monmouth, whose swift wrath beate downeThe neuer-daunted Percie to the earth,From whence (with life) he neuer more sprung vp. Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts, Leaves them invisible, and his siege is now Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds With many legions of strange fantasies, Which, in their throng and press to that last hold, Confound themselves. Exeunt Goneril, [Edmund, and Oswald]. Where was his son when they did take his eyes? Gent. '"My parts had pow'r to charm a sacred nun, Who, disciplined, ay, dieted in grace, Believed her eyes when they t'assail begun, All vows and consecrations giving place, O most potential love, vow, bond, nor space, In thee hath neither sting, knot, nor co [Edgar interposes. 'Small show of man was yet upon his chin; His phoenix down began but to appear, Like unshorn velvet, on that termless skin, Whose bare out-bragged the web it seemed to wear: Yet showed his visage by that cost more dear; And nice affections wavering stoo Fear not, my lord; that Power that made you king Hath power to keep you king in spite of all. As gentle and as jocund as to jest Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast. If thou didst but consent To this most cruel act, do but despair; And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread That ever spider twisted from her womb Will serve to strangle thee; a rush will be a beam To hang thee on; or wouldst thou drown thyself, P [To an officer] Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk. Thus do the hopes we haue in him, touch ground,And dash themselues to pieces. --Your good voice, sir; whatsay you?SECOND CITIZEN. Nut-hooke, nut-hooke, you Lye: Come on, Iletell thee what, thou damn'd Tripe-visag'd Rascall, if theChilde I now go with, do miscarrie, thou had'st betterthou had'st strooke thy Mother, thou Paper-fac'd Villaine Host. O gentle lady, do not put me to't, For I am nothing if not critical. Thou old unhappy traitor, Briefly thyself remember. Roderigo kill'd? And Cassio kill'd? EMILIA. Here are the angels that you sent for to deliveryou. I could bee well contented tobe there, in respect of the loue I beare your house. I have heard Where many of the best respect in Rome, Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus And groaning underneath this age's yoke, Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes. He is not yet arrived, nor know I aught But that he's well and will be shortly here. There is a kind ofmerry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. Master Gower, if they become mee not, hee was aFoole that taught them mee. You have said; but whether wisely or no, let theforest judge. I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee. I shall th?effect of this good lesson keep As watchman to my heart. Here stand a pair of honourable men- A third is fled--that had a hand in it. Why, then, 'tis hers, my lord, and being hers, She may, I think, bestow't on any man. Doe, if thou dar'st for thy heart: if thou doo'st,Ile canuas thee betweene a paire of Sheetes. Do ye not loue me? Do ye not indeed?Well, do not then. Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief Shore his old thread in twain; did he live now, This sight would make him do a desperate turn, Yea, curse his better angel from his side, And fall to reprobation. Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what I would speak of concerns him. That such a slave as this should wear a sword, Who wears no honesty. I will weary you, then, no longer with idle talking. What said our cousin when you parted with him? AUMERLE. Back do I toss those treasons to thy head; With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart; Whichfor they yet glance by and scarcely bruise This sword of mine shall give them instant way Where they shall rest for ever. These may be counterfeits; let's think't unsafe To come in to the cry without more help. I haue vizards for youall; you haue horses for your selues: Gads-hill lyes tonight in Rochester, I haue bespoke Supper to morrow inEastcheape; we may doe it as secure as sleepe: if you willgo, I will stuffe your Purses full of Crownes: if you willnot, t Doubtful it stood;As two spent swimmers that do cling togetherAnd choke their art. Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heauen,Thy ignomy sleepe with thee in the graue,But not remembred in thy Epitaph. Therefore use thy discretion: I had as lief thou didst breakhis neck as his finger. I ran from Shrewsbury (my Noble Lord)Where hatefull death put on his vgliest MaskeTo fright our party North. With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord; notwith love. My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think His father never was so true begot; It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother. Within these ten days if that thou beest found So near our public court as twenty miles, Thou diest for it. What, Brutus, are you stirr'd so early too? Good morrow, Casca. What committed? Impudent strumpet! DESDEMONA. It shall be to him then, as our good wills,A sure destruction. And here's another, Writ in my cousin's hand, stol'n from her pocket, Containing her affection unto Benedick. For loe, within a Ken our Army lyes,Vpon mine Honor, all too confidentTo giue admittance to a thought of feare. It is more worthy to leap in ourselves Than tarry till they push us. Accommodated, it comes of Accommodo:very good, a good Phrase Bard. 'Your (wife, so I would say) affectionate servant, 'Goneril. But I have none: the king-becoming graces,As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,I have no relish of them; but aboundIn the division of each several crime,Acting it many waHow chance the King comes with so small a number? Fool. I will leave younow to your gossiplike humour. Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA ORLANDO. Tell your Nephew,The Prince of Wales doth ioyne with all the worldIn praise of Henry Percie: By my Hopes,This present enterprize set off his head,I do not thinke a brauer Gentleman,More actiue, valiant, or more valiant yong,More daring, or more bold, is His Highness yet doth speak, and holds belief That, being brought into the open air, It would allay the burning quality Of that fell poison which assaileth him. He did: and with an absolute "Sir, not I,"The cloudy messenger turns me his back,And hums, as who should say, "You'll rue the timeThat clogs me with this answer. Sure her offence Must be of such unnatural degree That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection Fall'n into taint; which to believe of her Must be a faith that reason without miracle Should never plant in me. I think thou dost; And for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath, Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more; For such things in a false disloyal knave Are tricks of custom; but in a man tha O good old man, how well in thee appears The constant service of the antique world, When service sweat for duty, not for meed! Thou art not for the fashion of these times, Where none will sweat but for promotion, And having that do choke their service u Opens the letter, andreads. Knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such reverence. How now, my lord? OTHELLO. Vncle, adieu: O let the houres be short,Till fields, and blowes, and grones, applaud our sport. But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale, And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale. --Yet my heartThrobs to know one thing: tell me,--if your artCan tell so much,--shall Banquo's issue everReign in this kingdom?ALL. Why so can I, or so can any man:But will they come, when you doe call for them? Glend. Why, I tell thee, it is not meet, that I should besad now my Father is sicke: albeit I could tell to thee (asto one it pleases me, for fault of a better, to call my friend)I could be sad, and sad indeed too Poin. Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be aman. Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald, and therefore to the world's end will have bald followers. These tardie Tricks of yours will (on my life)One time, or other, breake some Gallowes back Falst. These flags of France, that are advanced here Before the eye and prospect of your town, Have hither march'd to your endamagement; The cannons have their bowels full of wrath, And ready mounted are they to spit forth Their iron indignation 'gainst your w [Within] A woman, and thine aunt, great King; 'tis I. Thou losest labour:As easy mayst thou the intrenchant airWith thy keen sword impress, as make me bleed:Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests;I bear a charmed life, which must not yieldTo one of woman born. The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleas'dTo make thee consul. Our Newes shall goe before vs, to his Maiestie,Which (Cousin) you shall beare, to comfort him:And wee with sober speede will follow you Falst. To't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers. Along with them They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-fac'd villain, A mere anatomy, a mountebank, A threadbare juggler, and a fortune-teller, A needy, hollow-ey'd, sharp-looking wretch, A living dead man. You are there follow'd by a faithful shepherd; Look upon him, love him; he worships you. Anon, anon sir; looke downe into the Pomgarnet,Ralfe Prince. Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son? 'Tis full three months since I did see him last. Sweet soul, take heed, Take heed of perjury; thou are on thy deathbed. For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd With that dear blood which it hath fostered; And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword; And for we think the eagle-winged pride Of sky-aspiring and ambit Not so (my Lord) your ill Angell is light: but Ihope, he that lookes vpon mee, will take mee without,weighing: and yet, in some respects I grant, I cannot go:I cannot tell. There is my gage, the manual seal of death That marks thee out for hell. In sooth Ileknow your businesse Harry, that I will. Let no face be kept in mind But the fair of Rosalinde. 'Well could he ride, and often men would say, "That horse his mettle from his rider takes: Proud of subjection, noble by the sway, What rounds, what bounds, what course, what stop he makes!" And controversy hence a question takes Whether the horse by hi The Prince of Cumberland!--That is a step,On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,For in my way it lies. 'Tis thoughtThat Marcius shall be consul:I have seen the dumb men throng to see him, andThe blind to hear him speak: matrons flung gloves,Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,Upon him as he pass'd; the nobles bendedAs to Jove's statue; and the Because their Legges are both of a bignesse: andhee playes at Quoits well, and eates Conger and Fennell,and drinkes off Candles ends for Flap-dragons, and ridesthe wilde-Mare with the Boyes, and iumpes vpon Ioyn'dstooles,and sweares with a good grace, a [To Kent] You are o' th' commission, Sit you too. --There's husbandry in heaven;Their candles are all out:--take thee that too. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I list; nor I list not to think what I can; nor indeed I cannot think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that youare in love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be inlove. There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on their barks; hangs odesupon hawthorns and elegies on brambles; all, forsooth, deifyingthe name of Rosalind. Ecstasy! My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time, And makes as healthful music: it is not madness That I have utter?: bring me to the test, And I the matter will re-word; which madness Would gambol from. Truly, thou art damn'd, like an ill-roasted egg,all on one side. Let's have no more of this;let's to our affairs. A greater pow'r than we denies all this; And till it be undoubted, we do lock Our former scruple in our strong-barr'd gates; King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolv'd, Be by some certain king purg'd and depos'd. [A dance]ExeuntEPILOGUE EPILOGUE. Now go we in content To liberty, and not to banishment. Now the good gods forbidThat our renowned Rome, whose gratitudeTowards her deserved children is enroll'dIn Jove's own book, like an unnatural damShould now eat up her own!SICINIUS. His hands were guilty of no kindred blood, But bloody with the enemies of his kin. Tomorrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you. Your Maiestie hath beene this fort-night ill,And these vnseason'd howres perforce must addeVnto your Sicknesse King. [To ARTHUR] Cousin, look not sad; Thy grandam loves thee, and thy uncle will As dear be to thee as thy father was. The service of the foot,Being once gangren'd, is not then respected For what before it was. You foure shall front them in the narrow Lane:Ned and I, will walke lower; if they scape from your encounter,then they light on vs Peto. He that will give good words to thee will flatterBeneath abhorring. So, nobles, shall you all, That knit your sinews to the strength of mine. Can it be possible that no man saw them? It cannot be; some villains of my court Are of consent and sufferance in this. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will not mend his pace with beating; and when you are asked this question next, say ? grave-maker;?the houses he makes last till doomsday. Then up he rose and donn? his clothes, And dupp? the chamber door, Let in the maid, that out a maid Never departed more. --If I could shake off but one seven yearsFrom these old arms and legs, by the good gods,I'd with thee every foot. Enter Othello and Iago, at a distance. But if it did infect my blood with Ioy,Or swell my Thoughts, to any straine of Pride,If any Rebell, or vaine spirit of mine,Did, with the least Affection of a Welcome,Giue entertainment to the might of it,Let heauen, for euer, keepe it from my head,And mCome:Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius,Though Marcius earn'd them not; and all his faultsTo Marcius shall be honours, though, indeed,In aught he merit not. I cannot chuse: sometime he angers me,With telling me of the Moldwarpe and the Ant,Of the Dreamer Merlin, and his Prophecies;And of a Dragon, and a finne-lesse Fish,A clip-wing'd Griffin, and a moulten Rauen,A couching Lyon, and a ramping Cat,And such a Have at you now! [Laertes wounds Hamlet; then, in scuffling, they change rapiers, and Hamlet wounds Laertes. How sour sweet music is When time is broke and no proportion kept! So is it in the music of men's lives. Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter. No; when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she notby Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature hath given us witto flout at Fortune, hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cutoff the argument? ROSALIND. Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well, For he went sickly forth; and take good note What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him. What will you do? Let's not consort with them:To show an unfelt sorrow is an officeWhich the false man does easy. What, man! I know them, yea, And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple, Scambling, outfacing, fashion-monging boys, That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander, Go anticly, show outward hideousness, And speak off half a dozen dang'rous words,  Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd When others are more wicked; not being the worst Stands in some rank of praise. Say from whenceYou owe this strange intelligence? or whyUpon this blasted heath you stop our wayWith such prophetic greeting?--Speak, I charge you. I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head, And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot. Rich sheshall be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'llnever cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or comenot near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what co God's benison go with you; and with thoseThat would make good of bad, and friends of foes![Exeunt. This Apoplexie is (as I take it) a kind of Lethargie,a sleeping of the blood, a horson Tingling Iust. This ague fit of fear is over-blown; An easy task it is to win our own. You'll see your Rome embrac'd with fire beforeYou'll speak with Coriolanus. Nay, 'tis in a manner done already; For many carriages he hath dispatch'd To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel To the disposing of the Cardinal; With whom yourself, myself, and other lords, If you think meet, this afternoon will post To consum But since all is wel, keep it so: wake not a sleeping Wolfe Fal. A Crownes-worth of good Interpretation:There it is, Boy Poin. When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah? Fool. Tilly-fally (Sir Iohn) neuer tell me, your ancientSwaggerer comes not in my doores. He had rather see the swords and hear a drum than look upon hisschoolmaster. Her eye must be fed; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil?When the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there shouldbe, again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, andbe Our strong possession and our right for us! ELINOR. What a Frosty-spirited rogue is this?Why, my Lord of Yorke commends the plot, and thegenerall course of the action. Now Esperance Percy, and set on:Sound all the lofty Instruments of Warre,And by that Musicke, let vs all imbrace:For heauen to earth, some of vs neuer shall,A second time do such a curtesie. Is 'a not approved in the height a villain, that hath slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O that I were a man! What? bear her in hand until they come to take hands,and then with public accusation, uncover'd slander, unmitigated rancour--O God, He's to make his requests by particulars, whereinevery one of us has a single honour, in giving him our own voiceswith our own tongues; therefore follow me, and I'll direct youhow you shall go by him. Yet he's gentle; never school'dand yet learned; full of noble device; of all sorts enchantingly beloved; and, indeed, so much in the heart of the world, and especially of my own people, who best know him, that I am altogether misprised. But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak? ORLANDO. O, bravely came we off, When with a volley of our needless shot, After such bloody toil, we bid good night; And wound our tott'ring colours clearly up, Last in the field and almost lords of it! Enter a MESSENGER MESSENGER. This and much more, much more than twice all this, Condemns you to the death. Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund As to th' legitimate. What trick? what deuice? what startinghole canst thou now find out, to hide thee from this openand apparant shame? Poines. Ha, ha, false to me? IAGO. What committed! Heaven stops the nose at it, and the moon winks; The bawdy wind, that kisses all it meets, Is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth, And will not hear it. O constancy, be strong upon my side! Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue! I have a man's mind, but a woman's might. What shall I call thee when thou art a man? ROSALIND. Can I bear that with patience And not my husband's secrets? BRUTUS. Sweet sir, sit: Ile be with you anon: most sweetesir, sit. Knock,knock! Who's there, in the other devil's name? Faith, here's anequivocator, that could swear in both the scales against eitherscale, who committed treason enough for God's sake, yet could notequivocate to heaven: O, come in, equivocator. If that come short, Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters; Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich, They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold, And send them after to supply our wants; For we will make for Ireland presently. I will not eat my word, now thou art mine; Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine. 'Od's my will! Her love is not the hare that I do hunt; Why writes she so to me? Well, shepherd, well, This is a letter of your own device. My woeful self, that did in freedom stand, And was my own fee-simple, not in part, What with his art in youth, and youth in art, Threw my affections in his charmed power Reserved the stalk and gave him all my flower. O, beware, my lord, of jealousy! It is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock The meat it feeds on. It is the stars, The stars above us, govern our conditions; Else one self mate and mate could not beget Such different issues. Yet this my comfort: when your words are done, My woes end likewise with the evening sun. Father, father! Stop, stop! No help? Enter Gloucester, and Servants with torches. I say, we will have no moe marriages: those that are married already, all but one, shall live; the rest shall keep as they are. You are too shallow (Hastings)Much too shallow,To sound the bottome of the after-Times West. The queen, the courtiers: who is that they follow? And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken The corse they follow did with desperate hand Fordo it own life: ?was of some estate. No, I thinke thou art not: I thinke thou art quitfor that. Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes I see thy grieved heart. A most manly wit, Margaret: it will not hurt a woman. This sanguineCoward, this Bed-presser, this Hors-back-breaker,this huge Hill of Flesh Falst. A good shallow young fellow: hee would hauemade a good Pantler, hee would haue chipp'd Breadwell Dol. 'Your meat doth burn' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he. DUKE, living in exile FREDERICK, his brother, and usurper of his dominions AMIENS, lord attending on the banished Duke JAQUES, " " " " " " LE BEAU, a courtier attending upon Frederick CHARLES, wrestler to Frederick OLIVER, son of Sir Rowland de Boys JAQ Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight With hearts more proof than shields. I find here that Don Pedro hath bestowed much honouron a young Florentine called Claudio. Horses are tied bythe head, dogs and bears by th' neck, monkeys by th' loins, andmen by th' legs. Here's he that would take from you all your power. Enter [Oswald the] Steward. It is a creature that I teach to fight, To wind, to stop, to run directly on, His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit. Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a manwho hath any honesty in him. My Liege: This haste was hot in question,And many limits of the Charge set downeBut yesternight: when all athwart there cameA Post from Wales, loaden with heauy Newes;Whose worst was, That the Noble Mortimer,Leading the men of Herefordshire to fightAgai Oh Heauen, that one might read the Book of Fate,And see the reuolution of the TimesMake Mountaines leuell, and the Continent(Wearie of solide firmenesse) melt it selfeInto the Sea: and other Times, to seeThe beachie Girdle of the OceanToo wide for Neptu Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch? heroes the beggars?shadows. What means our cousin that he stares and looks So wildly? AUMERLE. Brought to this town by that most famouswarrior, Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle. Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with ahusband. Who is here so vile that will not love his country?If any, speak, for him have I offended. Indeed they are disproportion'd; My letters say a hundred and seven galleys. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture? The Scripture says Adam digg?: could he dig without arms? I?l put another question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the purpose, confess thyself,?2 Clown. You'l cracke a quart together? Ha, will you notM[aster]. O, then, my father, Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties Pluck'd from my arms perforce, and given away To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born? If that my cousin king be King in England, It must b I cannot mend it, I must needs confess, Because my power is weak and all ill left; But if I could, by Him that gave me life, I would attach you all and make you stoop Unto the sovereign mercy of the King; But since I cannot, be it known unto you I do re Let it work; For ?is the sport to have the enginer Hoist with his own petard: and ? shall go hard But I will delve one yard below their mines And blow them at the moon: O, ?is most sweet, When in one line two crafts directly meet. Friends am I with you all and love you all, Upon this hope that you shall give me reasons Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous. Let me but bind it hard, within this hour It will be well. Now mark me how I will undo myself: I give this heavy weight from off my head, And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand, The pride of kingly sway from out my heart; With mine own tears I wash away my balm, With mine own hands I give away my crown, With mi I am the cygnet to this pale faint swan Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death, And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings His soul and body to their lasting rest. My father lov'd Sir Rowland as his soul, And all the world was of my father's mind; Had I before known this young man his son, I should have given him tears unto entreaties Ere he should thus have ventur'd. Our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona; wholet us not therefore blame. I will leere vpon him, ashe comes by: and do but marke the countenance that heewill giue me Pistol. And do but see his vice; 'Tis to his virtue a just equinox, The one as long as the other. --O, welcome home;--and welcome,general;--and you are welcome all. By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it,but that she loves him with an enraged affection. Meantime let wonder seem familiar, And to the chapel let us presently. There are many Complaints Dauy, against thatVisor, that Visor is an arrant Knaue, on my knowledge Dauy. [Servants bind him. There are a kind of men so loose of soul, That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs; One of this kind is Cassio. That is the way to lay the city flat;To bring the roof to the foundation,And bury all which yet distinctly ranges,In heaps and piles of ruin. There was I, andlittle Iohn Doit of Staffordshire, and blacke George Bare,and Francis Pick-bone, and Will Squele a Cotsal-man, youhad not foure such Swindge-bucklers in all the Innes ofCourt againe: And I may say to you, wee knew wherethe Bona-Roba's we The manner of their taking may appear At large discoursed in this paper here. Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge; You go not till I set you up a glass Where you may see the inmost part of you. He always lov'd our sister most, and with what poor judgment he hath now casther off appears too grossly. Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup; I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love. Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors, My very noble and approved good masters, That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter, It is most true; true, I have married her; The very head and front of my offending Hath this extent, no more. Although it seems,And so he thinks, and is no less apparentTo the vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly,And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soonAs draw his sword: yet he hath left undoneThat whic How now, my lord! I have been talking with a suitor here, A man that languishes in your displeasure. He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little hangman dare not shoot at him. There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats, For I am arm'd so strong in honesty, That they pass by me as the idle wind Which I respect not. Come my Masters, let vs share, and then to horssebefore day: and the Prince and Poynes bee not two arrandCowards, there's no equity stirring. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;?hough, I know, to divide him inventorially would dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw neither, in respect of his quick sail. Before the game's a-foot, thou still let'st slip Hot. But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale intotelling me of the fashion? Bora. My honour? lord, you know right well you did; And with them words of so sweet breath compos? As made the things more rich; their perfume lost, Take these again; for to the noble mind Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind. If thou wert any way giuen to vertue, I wouldsweare by thy Face; my Oath should bee, By this Fire:But thou art altogether giuen ouer; and wert indeede,but for the Light in thy Face, the Sunne of vtter Darkenesse. --Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!MENENIUS. Hark!--Who lies i' the second chamber?LADY MACBETH. Ha! Here'sthree on's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself; unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor, bare, forked animal as thou art. What, ho! No watch? No passage? Murther! Murther! GRATIANO. Why, madam, if I were your father's dog, You should not use me so. Enter NORTHUMBERLAND NORTHUMBERLAND. What need she be acquainted? What simple thief brags of his own attaint? 'Tis double wrong to truant with your bed And let her read it in thy looks at board; Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed; Ill deeds is doubled with an evil word. Health, and faire greeting from our Generall,The Prince, Lord Iohn, and Duke of Lancaster Bish. The Prince hath ta'ne it hence:Goe seeke him out. Why, you are so fat, Sir Iohn, that you mustneedes bee out of of all compasse; out all reasonablecompasse, Sir Iohn Falst. Exeunt from above BOLINGBROKE. All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!SECOND WITCH. My Lord of Burgundy, We first address toward you, who with this king Hath rivall'd for our daughter. You have kill'd a sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Depose me: if thou do'st it halfe so grauely, somaiestically, both in word and matter, hang me vp by theheeles for a Rabbet-sucker, or a Poulters Hare Prin. Away, you fool! It more becomes a manThan gilt his trophy: the breasts of Hecuba,When she did suckle Hector, looked not lovelierThan Hector's forehead when it spit forth bloodAt Grecian swords contending. Which is the natural man, And which the spirit? Who deciphers them?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Come, go; I will fall prostrate at his feet, And never rise until my tears and prayers Have won his Grace to come in person hither And take perforce my husband from the Abbess. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby, Am I; who ready here do stand in arms To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour, In lists on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous, To God of heaven, King Richard, and to m The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick,Don John, and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch youto church. Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man picked out of ten thousand. Icome but in, as others do, to try with him the strength of myyouth. Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehendedtwo aspicious persons, and we would have them this morningexamined before your worship. Exeunt Antony and Trebonius. Give me the cups; And let the kettle to the trumpet speak, The trumpet to the cannoneer without, The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth, ?ow the king drinks to Hamlet. Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom, Which I with some unwillingness pronounce: The sly slow hours shall not determinate The dateless limit of thy dear exile; The hopeless word of 'never to return' Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life. [To Edgar] Thou, robed man of justice, take thy place. We are not ourselves When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind To suffer with the body. SO was I when your Highness took his dukedom; So was I when your Highness banish'd him. I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd Than what I fear, for always I am Caesar. Fie, now you run this humour out ofbreath! Come, where's the chain? I pray you let me see it. Can such things be,And overcome us like a summer's cloud,Without our special wonder? You make me strangeEven to the disposition that I owe,When now I think you can behold such sights,And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks,When mine are blanch'd with feO Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her! CORIN. Nicholas as trulyas a man of falshood may Gad. Where is thy leather apron and thy rule? What dost thou with thy best apparel on? You, sir, what trade are you? SECOND COMMONER. If we shall be merry, now comes in the sweete ofthe night Fal. We will proceed no further in this business:He hath honour'd me of late; and I have boughtGolden opinions from all sorts of people,Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,Not cast aside so soon. Was that done like Cassius? Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so? When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous To lock such rascal counters from his friends, Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts, Dash him to pieces! CASSIUS. Icharge you, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as muchof this play as please you; and I charge you, O men, for thelove you bear to womenas I perceive by your simp'ring none ofyou hates themthat between you and the women the play mayplease. --Brings a victory inhis pocket?--The wounds become him. O that I were a fool! I am ambitious for a motley coat. Urge them while their souls Are capable of this ambition, Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath Of soft petitions, pity, and remorse, Cool and congeal again to what it was. Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air, So many fadom down precipitating, Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg; but thou dost breathe; Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound. What manner of man, and it like your Maiestie? Falst. 'Tis the Duke's pleasure, Whose disposition, all the world well knows, Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd. To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight; Give her this key, and tell her in the desk That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry There is a purse of ducats; let her send it. Marry (my Lord) Althea dream'd, she was deliuer'dof a Firebrand, and therefore I call him hir dream Prince. YOU sent me for a rope's end as soon You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark. I take it up; and by that sword I swear Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder I'll answer thee in any fair degree Or chivalrous design of knightly trial; And when I mount, alive may I not light If I be traitor or unjustly fight! KING RICHARD. What a blunt fellow is this grown to be! He was quick mettle when he went to school. But I prythee sweet Wag,shall there be Gallowes standing in England when thouart King? and resolution thus fobb'd as it is, with the rustiecurbe of old Father Anticke the Law? Doe not thouwhen thou art a King, hang a Theefe Prin. Ipress in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country copulatives, toswear and to forswear, according as marriage binds and bloodbreaks. What Horse? A Roane, a crop eare, is it not Ser. An he had been cannibally given, he might have broiled and eatenhim too. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!?Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn?, Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell, Be thy intents wicked or charitable, Thou com?t in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee: I?l call t Seuen, by these Hilts, or I am a Villaine else Prin. A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand Must be boisterously maintain'd as gain'd, And he that stands upon a slipp'ry place Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up; That John may stand then, Arthur needs must fall; So be it, for it cannot be but so. Avaunt, you curs! Be thy mouth or black or white, Tooth that poisons if it bite; Mastiff, greyhound, mongrel grim, Hound or spaniel, brach or lym, Bobtail tyke or trundle-tall Tom will make them weep and wail; For, with throwing thus my head, Dogs leap  My heart is sorry for your daughter's death; But, on my honour, she was charg'd with nothing But what was true, and very full of proof. I muse your Majesty doth seem so cold, When such profound respects do pull you on. Alas, poor Yorick!? knew him, Horatio; a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rises at it. Why, what a madcap hath heaven lent us here! ELINOR. Howe'er it be, I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad As-though, on thinking, on no thought I think Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink. Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?If not, why cease you till you are so?COMINIUS. Either consent to pay this sum for me, Or I attach you by this officer. Worcester get thee gone: for I do seeDanger and disobedience in thine eye. There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. I was a poor groom of thy stable, King, When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York, With much ado at length have gotten leave To look upon my sometimes royal master's face. Like to the Pontic Sea, Whose icy current and compulsive course Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on To the Propontic and the Hellespont, Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace, Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love, Till that a c Some devils ask but the parings of one'snail, A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin, A nut, a cherry-stone; But she, more covetous, would have a chain. How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse! If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live, I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness, And spit upon him whilst I say he lies, And lies, and lies. They say I willbear myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her. Hell and night Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light. What comfort to this great decay may come Shall be applied. If here you hous'd him, here he would have been; If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly. This, thou would'st say: Your Sonne did thus, and thus:Your Brother, thus. Yes, every man of them, and no man here But honors you, and every one doth wish You had but that opinion of yourself Which every noble Roman bears of you. If heaven be pleas'd that you must use me ill, Why, then you must. Iever said we were i' the wrong when we banished him. Up once again; put spirit in the French; If they miscarry, we miscarry too. Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but, as you would say, a cobbler. For all the World,As thou art to this houre, was Richard then,When I from France set foot at Rauenspurgh;And euen as I was then, is Percy now:Now by my Scepter, and my Soule to boot,He hath more worthy interest to the StateThen thou, the shadow of Succe To none of these, except it be the last; Namely, some love that drew him oft from home. When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor aman's good wit seconded with the forward child understanding, it strikes a man more dead than a great reckoning in a littleroom. But it would better fit your honour to change your mind. Say to the king, I would attend his leisureFor a few words. And what wit could wit have to excuse that? ROSALIND. I prayyou tell Benedick of it and hear what 'a will say. In cities, mutinies;in countries, discord; in palaces, treason; and the bondcrack'd 'twixt son and father. I do agnize A natural and prompt alacrity I find in hardness and do undertake These present wars against the Ottomites. No worse then they are bitten, sir: For theyhaue maruellous fowle linnen Shallow. Prithee, who is't that thou mean'st? TOUCHSTONE. O, pardon, sir, it doth, and yongrey lines That fret the clouds are messengers of day. She give it Cassio? No, alas, I found it, And I did give't my husband. Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her torise. Here comes a pair of very strange beastswhich in all tongues are call'd fools. Give not me counsel, Nor let no comforter delight mine ear But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine. Exeunt PERCY and LORDS What is the matter with our cousin now? AUMERLE. Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n, Which, as I think, you know not. These things indeed you haue articulated,Proclaim'd at Market Crosses, read in Churches,To face the Garment of RebellionWith some fine colour, that may please the eyeOf fickle Changelings, and poore Discontents,Which gape, and rub the Elbow at the newes He'll but break a comparison or two on me; which peradventure, not marked or not laugh'd at, strikes him into melancholy; and then there's a partridge wing saved, for thefool will eat no supper that night. I do beseech you To understand my purposes aright. And did not I in rage depart from thence?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord, Suddenly taken; and hath sent poste-haste To entreat your Majesty to visit him. Youth, you have done me much ungentleness To show the letter that I writ to you. Well, and say that MarciusReturn me, as Cominius is return'd,Unheard; what then?But as a discontented friend, grief-shotWith his unkindness? Say't be so?SICINIUS. Down from the waist they are Centaurs, Though women all above. THOU drunken slave! I sent the for a rope; And told thee to what purpose and what end. For them?--I cannot do it to the gods;Must I then do't to them?VOLUMNIA. I know not, gentlemen, what you intend, Who else must be let blood, who else is rank. But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal The clownish fool out of your father's court? Would he not be a comfort to our travel? CELIA. --Think upon what hath chanc'd; and, at more time,The interim having weigh'd it, let us speakOur free hearts each to other. (reads) 'This policy and reverence of age makes the world bitter to the best of our times; keeps our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish them. I, when, canst tell? Lend mee thy Lanthorne(quoth-a) marry Ile see thee hang'd first Gad. Away toward Bury, to the Dauphin there! PEMBROKE. Well, sir, by this you cannot get my land: Your tale must be how he employ'd my mother. While I remain above the ground, you shall Hear from me still; and never of me aughtBut what is like me formerly. I had a mighty cause To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him. Alas, what danger will it be to us, Maids as we are, to travel forth so far! Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold. Villainousthoughts, Roderigo! When these mutualities so marshal the way, hard athand comes the master and main exercise, the incorporateconclusion. --Let me twineMine arms about that body, where againstMy grained ash an hundred times hath brokeAnd scar'd the moon with splinters; here I clipThe anvil of my sword, and do contestAs hotly and as nobly with thy loveAs ever in ambitious strength I didContI had forgot myself; am I not King? Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest. I will doe my good will sir, you can haue nomore Falst. Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair. It is young Orlando, that tripp'd up the wrestler'sheels and your heart both in an instant. My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king, Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king; And if you crown him, let me prophesy The blood of English shall manure the ground, And future ages groan for this foul act; Peace shall go sleep with Turks and in Good sir, why do you start; and seem to fearThings that do sound so fair?-I' the name of truth,Are ye fantastical, or that indeedWhich outwardly ye show? My noble partnerYou greet with present grace and great predictionOf noble having and of royal hope,TBelieve me, noble lord, I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire. I see your brows are full of discontent, Your hearts of sorrow, and your eyes of tears. Come, if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles. The Prince of Wales? where is hee? let meesee him War. A sovereign shame so elbows him; his own unkindness, That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights To his dog-hearted daughtersthese things sting His mind so venomously that burning shame Detains him from How now, brother? Where is my cousin your son? Hath he provided this music? Ant. Hear us, great kings: vouchsafe awhile to stay, And I shall show you peace and fair-fac'd league; Win you this city without stroke or wound; Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds That here come sacrifices for the field. Come, let me take my Horse,Who is to beare me like a Thunder-bolt,Against the bosome of the Prince of Wales. Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat, or bespeak a long spoon. No, Caius Marcius;I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with the otherEre stay behind this business. My Lord, I will not vndergo this sneape withoutreply. Come on, assayThere's one gone to the harbor? IAGO. The service and the loyalty I owe,In doing it, pays itself. But if you be afear'd to hear the worst, Then let the worst, unheard, fall on your head. Renowned Duke, vouchsafe to take the pains To go with us into the abbey here, And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes; And all that are assembled in this place That by this sympathized one day's error Have suffer'd wrong, go keep us company, And w All furnisht, all in Armes,All plum'd like Estridges, that with the WindeBayted like Eagles, hauing lately bath'd,Glittering in Golden Coates, like Images,As full of spirit as the Moneth of May,And gorgeous as the Sunne at Mid-summer,Wanton as youthfull What motive may Be stronger with thee than the name of wife? CONSTANCE. O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early, Who, having some advantage on Octavius, Took it too eagerly. Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire; Threaten the threat'ner, and outface the brow Of bragging horror; so shall inferior eyes, That borrow their behaviours from the great, Grow great by your example and put on The dauntless spirit of resolution. I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep; It may be I shall raise you by and by On business to my brother Cassius. Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends;For my heart speaks they are welcome. ' Speak to me, son:Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,To imitate the graces of the gods,To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,And yet to charge thy sulphur with a boltThat should but rive an oak. Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS, and DROMIO OF EPHESUS, from theCOURTEZAN'SOFFICER. O, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit, And not dismember Caesar! But, alas, Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully; Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for ho Why then tomorrow night, or Tuesday morn, On Tuesday noon, or night, on Wednesday morn. Death on my state! Wherefore Should be sit here? This act persuades me That this remotion of the Duke and her Is practice only. Learne this Thomas,And thou shalt proue a shelter to thy friends,A Hoope of Gold, to binde thy Brothers in:That the vnited Vessell of their Blood(Mingled with Venome of Suggestion,As force, perforce, the Age will powre it in)Shall neuer leake, though it I'll go no more:I am afraid to think what I have done;Look on't again I dare not. That he, our hope, might have retir'd his power And driven into despair an enemy's hope Who strongly hath set footing in this land. --Arm, arm, and out!--If this which he avouches does appear,There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here. Against the thing he sought he would exclaim; When he most burned in heart-wished luxury, He preached pure maid and praised cold chastity. I'll put myself in poor and mean attire, And with a kind of umber smirch my face; The like do you; so shall we pass along, And never stir assailants. Letters came last night To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's That tell black tidings. Kind souls, what weep you when you but behold Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here, Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors. 'Tis not due yet: I would bee loath to pay himbefore his day. It was a violent commencement, and thou shalt see an answerable sequestrationput but money in thy purse. Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather. THE TRAGEDY OF OTHELLO, MOOR OF VENICEby William ShakespeareDramatis Personae OTHELLO, the Moor, general of the Venetian forces DESDEMONA, his wife IAGO, ensign to Othello EMILIA, his wife, lady-in-waiting to Desdemona CASSIO, lieutenant to Othello THE DNow merrily to Horse:The Theeues are scattred, and possest with fear so strongly,that they dare not meet each other: each takes his fellowfor an Officer. I do beseech you, Send for the lady to the Sagittary, And let her speak of me before her father. Villainy, villainy, villainy! I think upon't, I think, I smell't, O villainy! I thought so then. I will this night, In several hands, in at his windows throw, As if they came from several citizens, Writings, all tending to the great opinion That Rome holds of his name, wherein obscurely Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at. I know he doth not, and do arme my selfeTo welcome the condition of the Time,Which cannot looke more hideously vpon me,Then I haue drawne it in my fantasie. Thou hid'st a thousand Daggers in thy thoughts,Which thou hast whetted on thy stonie heart,To stab at halfe an howre of my Life. I saw him run after agilded butterfly; and when he caught it he let it go again; andafter it again; and over and over he comes, and up again; catchedit again; or whether his fall enraged him, or how 'twas, he didso set his teeth and tear it; O, I warran I prethee lend me thy Lanthorne to see my Geldingin the stable 1. I am attended at the cypress grove: I pray you,--'Tis south the city mills,--bring me word thitherHow the world goes, that to the pace of itI may spur on my journey. 'Tis yet to know Which, when I know that boasting is an honor, I shall promulgateI fetch my life and being From men of royal siege, and my demerits May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune As this that I have reach'd. I shall have glory by this losing day, More than Octavius and Mark Antony By this vile conquest shall attain unto. I am glad that my weak words Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus. But come thy ways, we'll go along together, And ere we have thy youthful wages spent We'll light upon some settled low content. None but the fool, who labours to outjest His heart-struck injuries. I am sorry,?What, have you given him any hard words of late? Oph. How chances it they travel? their residence, both in reputation and profit, was better both ways. No, good Captaine Pistol: not heere, sweeteCaptaine Dol. There's neyther Faith, Truth, nor Woman-hoodin me else Falst. I would dissemble with my nature whereMy fortunes and my friends at stake requir'dI should do so in honour: I am in thisYour wife, your son, these senators, the nobles;And you will rather show our general loutsHow you can frown, than spend a fawn upon 'eLet it alone, Ile make other shift: you'l be a foolstill Host. Wilt thou beleeue me, Hal? Three or foure Bondsof fortie pound apeece, and a Seale-Ring of my Grand-fathers Prince. Take it, and do't; and leave me for this time. Moral? No, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I meant plain holy thistle. TheIuuenall (the Prince your Master) whose Chin is not yetfledg'd, I will sooner haue a beard grow in the Palme ofmy hand, then he shall get one on his cheeke: yet he willnot sticke to say, his Face is a Face-Royall. If she confess that she was half the wooer, Destruction on my head, if my bad blame Light on the man! Come hither, gentle mistress. Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine, And let it answer every strain for strain, As thus for thus, and such a grief for such, In every lineament, branch, shape, and form. I do believe you think what now you speak; But what we do determine oft we break. We should by this, to all our lamentation,If he had gone forth consul, found it so. His Grace sayes that, which his flesh rebellsagainst Host. Let it be cast, and payde: Sir Iohn, you shallnot be excus'd Dauy. How now? two of my brother's men bound? Borachio one. By my troth, 's not so good, and I warrant your cousinwill say so. There is one within, Besides the things that we have heard and seen, Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch. Methinks I see this hurly all on foot; And, O, what better matter breeds for you Than I have nam'd! The bastard Faulconbridge Is now in England ransacking the Church, Offending charity; if but a dozen French Were there in arms, they would be as a can To How now, good Cassio! What's the news with you? CASSIO. They have dealt with me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they did; I am to do a good turn for them. Exeunt all but theBASTARD BASTARD. One day too late, I fear me, noble lord, Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth. My Lord Melun, let this be copied out And keep it safe for our remembrance; Return the precedent to these lords again, That, having our fair order written down, Both they and we, perusing o'er these notes, May know wherefore we took the sacrament, And k Boys, apes, braggarts, jacks, milksops! Leon. Speak, good Cominius:Leave nothing out for length, and make us thinkRather our state's defective for requitalThan we to stretch it out. Yes, and his ill conditions; and in despite of all, diesfor him. [To Cordelia] The gods to their dear shelter take thee,maid, That justly think'st and hast most rightly said! [To Regan and Goneril] And your large speeches may yourdeeds approve, That good effects may spring from words of love. In happy time, Iago. Ask him his purposes, why he appears Upon this call o' th' trumpet. Nay, had she been true, If heaven would make me such another world Of one entire and perfect chrysolite, I'ld not have sold her for it. Sir Iohn, sir Iohn, I am well acquainted with yourmaner of wrenching the true cause, the false way. Confess yourself to heaven; Repent what? past; avoid what is to come; And do not spread the compost on the weeds, To make them ranker. Not poppy, nor mandragora, Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world, Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owedst yesterday. Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend, How went he under him? GROOM. O the pernicious caitiff! How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief That was my wife's? CASSIO. Filial ingratitude! Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand For lifting food to't? But I will punish home! No, I will weep no more. Refrain to-night; And that shall lend a kind of easiness To the next abstinence: the next more easy; For use almost can change the stamp of nature, And either curb the devil, or throw him out With wondrous potency. Superfluous branches We lop away, that bearing boughs may live; Had he done so, himself had home the crown, Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down. There is my bond of faith, To tie thee to my strong correction. Well Hal, well: and in some sort it iumpes withmy humour, as well as waiting in the Court, I can tellyou Prin. Marry, and I am glad of it with all my heart,I had rather be a Kitten, and cry mew,Then one of these same Meeter Ballad-mongers:I had rather heare a Brazen Candlestick turn'd,Or a dry Wheele grate on the Axle-tree,And that would set my teeth nothing an  Pray Heauen, you haue not murthered some ofthem Falst. Therefore make present satisfaction, Or I'll attach you by this officer. The jewels you have had from me to deliver toDesdemona would half have corrupted a votarist. How does my royal lord? How fares your Majesty? Lear. Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady, Know of your love? OTHELLO. Before my bodyI throw my warlike shield: lay on, Macduff;And damn'd be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!"[Exeunt fighting. Statilius show'd the torchlight, but, my lord, He came not back. O, well done! I commend your pains;And everyone shall share i' the gains. I have sworn to do it; And with hot irons must I burn them out. Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in theteeth? Think'st thou I jest? Hold, take thou that, and that. All my treasury Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enrich'd, Shall be your love and labour's recompense. Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st for suchstore, When one is one too many? Go get thee from the door. My Soueraigne Lord, cheare vp your selfe, lookevp War. How high a pitch his resolution soars! Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this? MOWBRAY. There is but one mind in all thesemen, and it is bent against Caesar. How now Kate, I must leaue you within these two hours La. I marry, let me haue him to sit vnder: he's like tobe a cold souldier Shal. You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy. One speech in it I chiefly loved: ?was AEneas?tale to Dido, and thereabout of it especially where he speaks of Priam? slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin at this line;?et me see, let me see:?The rugged Pyrrhus, like th?Hyrcanian beast,?it is not Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited toswoon when he show'd me your handkercher? ORLANDO. Come, come, You'll never meet a more sufficient man. And to see how he prizes the foolish woman your wife! She gave it him, and he hath given it hiswhore. What adisgrace is it to me, to remember thy name? Or to knowthy face to morrow? Or to take note how many paire ofSilk stockings y hast? (Viz. I an itching palm? You know that you are Brutus that speaks this, Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last. The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not, Is of a constant, loving, noble nature, And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona A most dear husband. I will but teach them to sing and restore them to theowner. Sir, she can turn and turn, and yet go on, And turn again; and she can weep, sir, weep; And she's obedient, as you say, obedient, Very obedient. I am for the air; this night I'll spendUnto a dismal and a fatal end. By the discoveryWe shall be shorten'd in our aim; which was,To take in many towns ere, almost, RomeShould know we were afoot. Here lies the water; good: here stands the man; good: if the man go to this water and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he goes,?ark you that: but if the water come to him and drown him, he drowns not himself; argal, he that is not guilty of his o Holla, holla! That eye that told you so look'd but asquint. I found it in my chamber; And he himself confess'd but even now That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose Which wrought to his desire. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you do, surely,94 bar the door upon your own liberty if you deny your griefs to your friend. This tongue had not offended so today, If Cassius might have ruled. Another King? They grow like Hydra's heads:I am the Dowglas, fatall to all thoseThat weare those colours on them. Come Neighbor: the boy shall leade our Horsesdowne the hill: Wee'l walke a-foot a while, and ease ourLegges Theeues. Peace, Kent! Come not between the dragon and his wrath. I am not in a sportive humour now; Tell me, and dally not, where is the money? We being strangers here, how dar'st thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish Cut with her golden oars the silver stream And greedily devour the treacherous bait. 148 I had my father? signet in my purse, Which was the model of that Danish seal: Folded the writ up in the form of the other; Subscrib? it: gave? the impression; plac? it safely, The changeling never known. Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?MACDUFF. He shall kill two of us, and men indeed But that's no matter; let him kill one first. Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt:And would to God you were of our determination. Fie, fie! they are not to be nam'd, my lord- Not to be spoke of; There is not chastity, enough in language Without offence to utter them. What think'st thou? Had wefought, I doubt we should have been too young for them. O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books, And in their barks my thoughts I'll character, That every eye which in this forest looks Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where. Besides, this DuncanHath borne his faculties so meek, hath beenSo clear in his great office, that his virtuesWill plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, againstThe deep damnation of his taking-off:And pity, like a naked new-born babe,Striding the blast, or Come to me again, And bring me word what he doth say to thee. Who heard me to deny it or forswear it?SECOND MERCHANT. Ay, let her rot, and perish, and be damned tonight,for she shall not live. O, thou hast damnable iteration, and art indeedeable to corrupt a Saint. You that are old, consider not the capacitiesof vs that are yong: you measure the heat of our Liuers,with the bitternes of your gals: & we that are in thevaward of our youth, I must confesse, are wagges too Iust. There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice Proposing with the Prince and Claudio. So, now the gates are ope:--now prove good seconds:'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,Not for the fliers: mark me, and do the like. Bardolph, Peto: Ile starue ere Irob a foote further. Away, old man! give me thy hand! away! King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en. Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee; I will instruct my sorrows to be proud, For grief is proud, and makes his owner stoop. I couldsay she were worse; think you of a worse title, and I will fither to it. --We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,Our purpose to them;--and to our noble consulWish we all joy and honour. He hath much land, and fertile: let a beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king? mess; ?is a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt. There is no ancient gentlemen but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers: they hold up Adam? profession. Hee's walk'd the way of Nature,And to our purposes, he liues no more Ch. The music ended, We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth. The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour, But neither my good word nor princely favour; With Cain go wander thorough shades of night, And never show thy head by day nor light. And hence thou sickly Quoife,Thou art a guard too wanton for the head,Which Princes, flesh'd with Conquest, ayme to hit. There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees, Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard; And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour None else of name and noble estimate. For your claim,fair sister, I bar it in the interest of my wife. O thou, the earthly author of my blood, Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate, Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up To reach at victory above my head, Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers, And with thy blessings steel my lance's point, That it Let's follow the old Earl, and get the bedlam To lead him where he would. He fell down in the marketplace and foamed at mouth andwas speechless. What should you fear? 'Tis nothing but some bond that he is ent'red into For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph-day. All tongues speak of him and the bleared sightsAre spectacled to see him: your prattling nurseInto a rapture lets her baby cryWhile she chats him: the kitchen malkin pinsHer richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck,Clamb'ring the walls to eye him: stalls, bWhere he arrives he moves All hearts against us. This concludes: My mother's son did get your father's heir; Your father's heir must have your father's land. 'But woe is me! too early I attended A youthful suitit was to gain my grace O, one by nature's outwards so commended That maidens' eyes stuck over all his face. Thou shouldst have better pleas'd me with this deed, Hadst thou descended from another house. Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives fromthe king, who all-hailed me, 'Thane of Cawdor'; by which title,before, these weird sisters saluted me, and referred me to thecoming on of time, with 'Hail, king that shalt be!' This haveI thoughtNo, I'll not go: you hear what he hath saidWhich was sometime his general; who lov'd himIn a most dear particular. Her hair, nor loose nor tied in formal plat, Proclaimed in her a careless hand of pride; For some, untucked, descended her sheaved hat, Hanging her pale and pined cheek beside; Some in her threaden fillet still did bide, And, true to bondage, would not  This matcht with other like, my gracious Lord,Farre more vneuen and vnwelcome NewesCame from the North, and thus it did report:On Holy-roode day, the gallant Hotspurre there,Young Harry Percy, and braue Archibald,That euer-valiant and approoued Scot,At  First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you; Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand; Now, Decius Brutus, yours; now yours, Metellus; Yours, Cinna; and, my valiant Casca, yours; Though last, not least in love, yours, good Trebonius. Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus, and we petty men Walk under his huge legs and peep about To find ourselves dishonorable graves. What authority surfeits on would relieve us; if they would yieldus but the superfluity, while it were wholesome, we might guessthey relieved us humanely; but they think we are too dear: theleanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an inv[Sings] Fools had ne'er less grace in a year, For wise men are grown foppish; They know not how their wits to wear, Their manners are so apish. The earle of Westmerland set forth to day:With him my sonne, Lord Iohn of Lancaster,For this aduertisement is fiue dayes old. More hath he spent in peace than they in wars. Twice then the trumpets sounded, And there I left him tranc'd. The dark and vicious place where thee he got Cost him his eyes. I thought thy heart had been wounded with the clawsof a lion. What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband. Thus do I ever make my fool my purse; For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane If I would time expend with such a snipe But for my sport and profit. Would you buy her, that you enquire after her? Claud. You shall do small respect, show too bold malice Against the grace and person of my master, Stocking his messenger. See here these movers that do prize their hoursAt a crack'd drachma! Cushions, leaden spoons,Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen wouldBury with those that wore them, these base slaves,Ere yet the fight be done, pack up:--down with them!--And hark, whaI know that virtue to be in you, Brutus, As well as I do know your outward favor. Thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot, Wherein I thee endow'd. Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure; I can be patient, I can stay with Regan, I and my hundred knights. Behold! these are the tribunes of the people;The tongues o' the common mouth. It shall be so; and at the other hill Command the rest to stand. I cry you mercy then; I took you for that cunning whore of Venice That married with Othello. I can get no remedy against this Consumption ofthe purse. At your Birth,Our Grandam Earth, hauing this distemperature,In passion shooke Glend. See them delivered over To execution and the hand of death. And is not this an honourable spoyle?A gallant prize? Ha Cosin, is it not? Infaith it is West. My thanes and kinsmen,Henceforth be earls, the first that ever ScotlandIn such an honour nam'd. So delicate withher needle, an admirable musician. Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather. 'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue. What ruins are in me that can be found By him not ruin'd? Then is he the ground Of my defeatures. I wonder that you will still be talking, SigniorBenedick. I have studied eight or nine wise words tospeak to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear. If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor, Preferment falls on him that cuts him off. The man that makes his toe What he his heart should make Shall of a corn cry woe, And turn his sleep to wake. I must take out the work? A likely piece of workthat you should find it in your chamber and not know who left it there! This is some minx's token, and I must take out thework? There, give it your hobbyhorse. Villainous whore! EMILIA. [Within] Faith, no, he comes too late; And so tell your master. So that by this intelligence we learn The Welshmen are dispers'd; and Salisbury Is gone to meet the King, who lately landed With some few private friends upon this coast. If it please your Lordship, I heare his Maiestie isreturn'd with some discomfort from Wales Iust. Why, what a Rascall art thou then, to prayse himso for running? Falst. 'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost In this which he accounts so clearly won. This is a happier and more comely timeThan when these fellows ran about the streetsCrying confusion. '"And, lo, behold these talents of their hair, With twisted metal amorously empleached, I have receiv'd from many a several fair, Their kind acceptance weepingly beseeched, With the annexions of fair gems enriched, And deep-brained sonnets that did ampl O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven; It hath the primal eldest curse upon?,?A brother? murder!?ray can I not, Though inclination be as sharp as will: My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent; And, like a man to double business bound, I stand i 
Bid them move away; Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs, And I will give you audience. Proceed by process;Lest parties,--as he is belov'd,--break out,And sack great Rome with Romans. Well, what is it? Is it within reason and compass? IAGO. Shame itself!Why do you make such faces? When all's done,You look but on a stool. --Ring the alarum bell!--Blow, wind! come, wrack!At least we'll die with harness on our back. Oh sweet Pistoll:Away Bardolfe: Come Pistoll, vtter more to mee: andwithall deuise something to do thy selfe good. He made confession of you; And gave you such a masterly report For art and exercise in your defence, And for your rapier most especially, That he cried out, ?would be a sight indeed If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation He swore, had neit My Feare, is your Displeasure: My Curtsie, my Dutie:And my speech, to Begge your Pardons. Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will shakeme up. Lay her i?the earth;?And from her fair and unpolluted flesh May violets spring!? tell thee, churlish priest, A ministering angel shall my sister be When thou liest howling. I charge thee, Satan, hous'd within this man, To yield possession to my holy prayers, And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight. Did you converse, sir, with thisgentlewoman? What is the course and drift of your compact?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Trifles light as air Are to the jealous confirmations strong As proofs of holy writ; this may do something. To my sick soul, as sin? true nature is, Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss: So full of artless jealousy is guilt, It spills itself in fearing to be spilt. My lord, your valiant kinsman, Faulconbridge, Desires your Majesty to leave the field And send him word by me which way you go. Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the bark Expedition put forth to-night; and then were you hind'red by the sergeant, to tarry for the boy Delay. Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia? EMILIA. Good God, betimes removeThe means that makes us strangers!ROSS. What he cannot help in his nature you account a vice in him. It is religion that doth make vows kept; But thou hast sworn against religion By what thou swear'st against the thing thou swear'st, And mak'st an oath the surety for thy truth Against an oath; the truth thou art unsure To swear swears only not to be fo Exeunt Clitus, Dardanius, and Volumnius. Most fortunately: he hath achieved a maid That paragons description and wild fame, One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens, And in the essential vesture of creation Does tire the ingener. Which the ratherWe shall be bless'd to do, if he rememberA kinder value of the people thanHe hath hereto priz'd them at. I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children, You owe me no subscription. Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows, Why this same strict and most observant watch So nightly toils the sub ject of the land; And why such daily cast of brazen cannon, And foreign mart for implements of war;19 Why such impress of shipwrights, Justice, sweet Prince, against that womanthere! She whom thou gav'st to me to be my wife, That hath abused and dishonoured me Even in the strength and height of injury. Ye lye Hostesse: Bardolph was shau'd, and lostmany a hayre; and Ile be sworne my Pocket was pick'd:goe to, you are a Woman, goe Hostesse. Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence! CASSIUS. Then burst his mighty heart, And, in his mantle muffling up his face, Even at the base of Pompey's statue, Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell. Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up To such a sudden flood of mutiny. There lives within the very flame of love A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it; And nothing is at a like goodness still; For goodness, growing to a plurisy, Dies in his own too much: that we would do, We should do when we would; for this ?ould?cha But, my lord, his ma jesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on your head. A goodly portly man yfaith, and a corpulent,of a chearefull Looke, a pleasing Eye, and a most nobleCarriage, and as I thinke, his age some fiftie, or (byrlady)inclining to threescore; and now I remember mee, hisName is Falstaffe: if that man should be l I set him there, sir; but his own disorders Deserv'd much less advancement. Be as your fancies teach you; Whate'er you be, I am obedient. Iago offers to stabEmilia. That's a question; how shall we try it?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. If circumstances lead me, I will find Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed Within the centre. Come, guard the door without; let him not pass, But kill him rather. I, but Sir Iohn, me thinkes they are exceedingpoore and bare, too beggarly Falst. --Did heaven look on,And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,Not for their own demerits, but for mine,Fell slaughter on their souls: heaven rest them now!MALCOLM. If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it. O wonderful, wonderful, most wonderful wonderful, andyet again wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping! ROSALIND. 'Tis the infirmity of his age; yet he hath ever butslenderly known himself. And may it be that you have quite forgot A husband's office? Shall, Antipholus, Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot? Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous? If you did wed my sister for her wealth, Then for her wealth's sake use her with  When I came hither to transport the tidings,Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumourOf many worthy fellows that were out;Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,For that I saw the tyrant's power a-foot:Now is the time of help; your eye in ScotlThen (my Lord)Vnto your Grace doe I in chiefe addresseThe substance of my Speech. The cease of ma jesty Dies not alone; but like a gulf doth draw What? near it with it: it is a massy wheel, Fix? on the summit of the highest mount, To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things Are mortis? and adjoin?; which, when it falls, Each smal Here's a knocking indeed! If a man were porter of hell-gate, heshould have old turning the key. The Constables haue deliuer'd her ouer to mee:and shee shall haue Whipping cheere enough, I warranther. Only look up clear;To alter favor ever is to fear:Leave all the rest to me. Good Laertes, If you desire to know the certainty Of your dear father? death, is? writ in your revenge That, sweepstake, you will draw both friend and foe,123 Winner and loser? Laer. Sir, I thought it fit To send the old and miserable King To some retention and appointed guard; Whose age has charms in it, whose title more, To pluck the common bosom on his side And turn our impress'd lances in our eyes Which do command them. Be angry when you will, it shall have scope; Do what you will, dishonor shall be humor. I have sooften blush'd to acknowledge him that now I am braz'd to't. Fine word'legitimate'! Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed, And my invention thrive, Edmund the base Shall top th' legitimate. --What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,Which can make gods forsworn?--I melt, and am notOf stronger earth than others. But, sure, if youWould be your country's pleader, your good tongue,More than the instant army we can make,Might stop our countryman. That young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow. I am in Parliament pledge for his truth And lasting fealty to the new-made king. When yethe was but tender-bodied, and the only son of my womb; when youthwith comeliness pluck'd all gaze his way; when, for a day ofkings' entreaties, a mother should not sell him an hour from herbeholding; I,--considering how honour would become such  Be bloody, bold, and resolute; laugh to scornThe power of man, for none of woman bornShall harm Macbeth. What is the cause, Laertes, That thy rebellion looks so giant-like??Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person: There? such divinity doth hedge a king, That treason can but peep to what it would, Acts little of his will. Now my Masters, for a true Face andgood Conscience Falst. Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity, And fall into our rustic revelry. There is no measure in the occasion that breeds;therefore the sadness is without limit. But since, so jump upon this bloody question, You from the Polack wars, and you from England, Are here arriv?, give order that these bodies High on a stage be placed to the view; And let me speak to the yet unknowing world How these things came about: s Is't good to soothe him in these contraries?PINCH. Enter a GROOM of the stable GROOM. My most dear Gloucester! O, the difference of man and man! To thee a woman's services are due; My fool usurps my body. Nor know I aught By me that's said or done amiss this night, Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice, And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us. It is too true an evil: gone she is, And what's to come of my despised time Is nought but bitterness. Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd? No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose To wage against the enmity o' th' air, To be a comrade with the wolf and owl Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her? Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took Our Sir, a new linke to the Bucket must needes beehad: And Sir, doe you meane to stoppe any of WilliamsWages, about the Sacke he lost the other day, at HinckleyFayre? Shal. Frances of Assisi||Stan|Price|Stella |McCartney |Stephanie|Powers|Steve |Bellamy|Steve|Brill|Steve|Vai|Steve|Morse|Steve|Martin|Steve |Berra|Steve|Jobs|Apple Computers|vegetarian|Summer|Phoenix|Sunny|Harris|Surya|Bonaly|Susan B. Let me stay the growth of his beard, if thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin. O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four times seven years, and since I could distinguish betwixt a benefitand an injury, I never found man that knew how to love himself. You are not wood, you are not stones, but men; And, being men, hearing the will of Caesar, It will inflame you, it will make you mad. To-morrow next We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow. Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?AUFIDIUS. Are the Indentures drawne? shall we be gone? Glend. My noble father, I do perceive here a divided duty. We do believe thee; and beshrew my soul But I do love the favour and the form Of this most fair occasion, by the which We will untread the steps of damned flight, And like a bated and retired flood, Leaving our rankness and irregular course, Stoop low w Pause awhile And let my counsel sway you in this case. Why, I can teach thee, Cousin, to command theDeuill Hotsp. I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man swear he loves me. Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a bitter fool and a sweet fool? Lear. How fares our noble uncle Lancaster? KING RICHARD. The Trumpets sound Retreat, the day is ours:Come Brother, let's to the highest of the field,To see what Friends are liuing, who are dead. Can you not read it? Is it not fair writ? ARTHUR. O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd mydaughter? Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her, For I'll refer me to all things of sense, If she in chains of magic were not bound, Whether a maid so tender, fair, and happy, So opposite to marriage tha This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch, The lion and the belly-pinched wolf Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs, And bids what will take all. Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!?My father,?ethinks I see my father. But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens? It is the part of men to fear and tremble When the most mighty gods by tokens send Such dreadful heralds to astonish us. That done, I will be walking on the works; Repair there to me. All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!THIRD WITCH. That I would have spoken of:Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth;Presented to my knife his throat: I took him;Made him joint-servant with me; gave him wayIn all his own desires; nay, let him chooseOut of my files, his projects to accomplish,My beExeunt all but Brutus. Here had we now our country's honor roof'd,Were the grac'd person of our Banquo present;Who may I rather challenge for unkindnessThan pity for mischance!ROSS. Give me your hand, And let me all your fortunes understand. [aside] One way I like this well; But being widow, and my Gloucester with her, May all the building in my fancy pluck Upon my hateful life. Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the clock. Thou ly'st, thou art not colted, thou art vncolted Fal. Doth not the crown of England prove the King? And if not that, I bring you witnesses: Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed BASTARD. In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire With good old folks, and let them tell thee tales Of woeful ages long ago betid; And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs Tell thou the lamentable tale of me, And send the hearers weeping to their beds His company must do his minions grace, Whilst I at home starve for a merry look. The senators of Rome are this good belly,And you the mutinous members; for, examineTheir counsels and their cares; digest things rightlyTouching the weal o' the common; you shall findNo public benefit which you receiveBut it proceeds or comes from them tYour napkin is too little; He puts the handkerchief from him, and she drops it. Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits, That hold their honors in a wary distance, The very elements of this warlike isle, Have I tonight fluster'd with flowing cups, And they watch too. I pray thee cease thy counsel, Which falls into mine ears as profitless As water in a sieve. Dead shepherd, now I find thy saw of might: 'Who ever lov'd that lov'd not at first sight?' SILVIUS. I will do?: And for that purpose I?l anoint my sword. As the coney that you see dwell where she is kindled. O most small fault, How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show! Which, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature From the fix'd place; drew from my heart all love And added to the gall. What, thou mean'st an officer?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. [They all shout and wave their swords; take him up in their armsand cast up their caps. How, sir! Do you meddle with my master?CORIOLANUS. Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs. 'Tis very true:And therefore be assur'd (my good Lord Marshal)If we do now make our attonement well,Our Peace, will (like a broken Limbe vnited)Grow stronger, for the breaking Mow. Exit Cassius, with some Citizens. By heauen I cannot flatter: I defieThe Tongues of Soothers. When Arthur first in Court (emptie the Iordan)and was a worthy King: How now Mistris Dol? Host. Well, the King hath seuer'd you and Prince Harry,I heare you are going with Lord Iohn of Lancaster, againstthe Archbishop, and the Earle of Northumberland Fal. Why came not the slave back to me when I call'd him? Knight. I pray you all, If you have hitherto conceal? this sight, Let it be tenable in your silence still; And whatsoever else shall hap to-night, Give it an understanding, but no tongue: I will requite your loves. Thou art the best o' the cut-throats; yet he's goodThat did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,Thou art the nonpareil. What, have his daughters brought him to this pass? Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give 'em all? Fool. Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox, andAttendants. You have stood your limitation; and the tribunesEndue you with the people's voice:--remainsThat, in the official marks invested, youAnon do meet the senate. It is now high supper-time, and the night grows to waste. If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit, The one's for use, the other useth it. So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back! That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand; This hand hath made him proud with clapping him. Philip-Sparrow! James, There's toys abroad-anon I'll tell thee more. What, for a counter, would I do but good? DUKE SENIOR. What mean you, Caesar? Think you to walk forth? You shall not stir out of your house today. If it be possible for you to displace it with your littlefinger, there is some hope the ladies of Rome, especially hismother, may prevail with him. CoriolanusHe would not answer to: forbad all names;He was a kind of nothing, titleless,Till he had forg'd himself a name i' the fireOf burning Rome. [Aside] I am not in the mind but I were better tobe married of him than of another; for he is not like to marryme well; and not being well married, it will be a good excusefor me hereafter to leave my wife. It lies as sightly on the back of him As great Alcides' shows upon an ass; But, ass, I'll take that burden from your back, Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack. Re-enter LE BEAU LE BEAU. Thrust him downe stayres, I cannot endure sucha Fustian Rascall Pist. Enter Leonato, Benedick, [Beatrice,] Margaret, Ursula, Antonio,Friar [Francis], Hero. With old Menenius, and those senatorsThat always favour'd him. With all my heart, sir. His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood! VOLUMNIA. Heauen pardon thee:Yet let me wonder, Harry,At thy affections, which doe hold a WingQuite from the flight of all thy ancestors. Keep you your word, O Duke, to give your daughter; You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter; Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me, Or else, refusing me, to wed this shepherd; Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her If she refuse me; and Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal; for they canwrite and read. We do remember: but our ArgumentIs all too heauy, to admit much talke Ioh. That from your first of difference and decay Have followed your sad steps. Our Hands are full of Businesse: let's away,Aduantage feedes him fat, while men delay. Or, if thou wilt needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them. You all looke strangely on me: and you most,You are (I thinke) assur'd, I loue you not Ch. Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon; These bloody accidents must excuse my manners, That so neglected you. If your honour judge it meet, I will place you where youshall hear us confer of this and by an auricular assurance haveyour satisfaction, and that without any further delay than thisvery evening. If thou haue power to rayse him, bring him hither,And Ile be sworne, I haue power to shame him hence. O gentle son, Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look? Ham. Marry, my Lord, there is a Noble man of theCourt at doore would speake with you: hee sayes, heecomes from your Father Prin. I live with bread like you, feel want, Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus, How can you say to me I am a king? CARLISLE. Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face, While I do run upon it. He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts i' the body. There's none but witches do inhabit here, And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence. Your company to the Capitol; where, I know,Our greatest friends attend us. For this relief much thanks: ?is bitter cold, And I am sick at heart. I am awise fellow; and which is more, an officer; and which is more, a householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh asany is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to! and a rich fellow enough, go to! and a fellow that hath had losses; Therefore great France My mourning and important tears hath pitied. Nay then, give him another staff; this last was brokecross. Is it come to that? I had thought wearines durstnot haue attach'd one of so high blood Prin. He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall; His leg is but so-so; and yet 'tis well. As Hector, I assure you; and in the managing of quarrelsyou may say he is wise, for either he avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes them with a most Christianlikefear. Hopeless and helpless doth Aegeon wend, But to procrastinate his lifeless end. What means your Grace? Enter Goneril. If he fall in, good night, or sinke or swimme:Send danger from the East vnto the West,So Honor crosse it from the North to South,And let them grapple: The blood more stirresTo rowze a Lyon, then to start a Hare Nor. You may thanke thevnquiet time, for your quiet o're-posting that Action Fal. I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is emulation; nor the musician's, which is fantastical; nor the courtier's, which is proud; nor the soldier's, which is ambitious; nor the lawyer's, which is politic; nor thelady's, which is nice; nor the l Where is this viperThat would depopulate the city andBe every man himself?MENENIUS. 'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be But I should know her as well as she knows me. And affecting one sole throne,Without assistance. Let sorrow split my heart if ever I Did hate thee, or thy father! Edg. The enmity and discord which of late Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen, Who, wanting guilders to redeem their lives, Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods, Excludes all pity from our t You could never do him so ill-well unless you were thevery man. Your native town you enter'd like a post,And had no welcomes home; but he returnsSplitting the air with noise. The cares I give I have, though given away; They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay. He my Lord, but he hath since done good seruiceat Shrewsbury: and (as I heare) is now going with someCharge, to the Lord Iohn of Lancaster Iust. I minded him how royal 'twas to pardonWhen it was less expected: he replied,It was a bare petition of a stateTo one whom they had punish'd. It is needful that you framethe season for your own harvest. Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do All my abilities in thy behalf. Nor time nor placeDid then adhere, and yet you would make both:They have made themselves, and that their fitness nowDoes unmake you. Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,Or else worth all the rest: I see thee still;And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,Which was not so before. Thy sad aspect Hath from the number of his banish'd years Pluck'd four away. I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in hisgrace, and it better fits my blood to be disdain'd of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any. Think not the King did banish thee, But thou the King. 129 Ay, my lord; So you will not o?rrule me to a peace. There's a great abatement of kindnessappears as well in the general dependants as in the Duke himselfalso and your daughter. Now put it, God, in the physician's mind To help him to his grave immediately! The lining of his coffers shall make coats To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars. Exeunt all but Iago andRoderigo. Be patient (Princes) you doe know, these FitsAre with his Highnesse very ordinarie. And there were drawn Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women Transformed with their fear, who swore they saw Men all in fire walk up and down the streets. As for the rest appeal'd, It issues from the rancour of a villain, A recreant and most degenerate traitor; Which in myself I boldly will defend, And interchangeably hurl down my gage Upon this overweening traitor's foot To prove myself a loyal gentleman s? Iput thee now to thy Book-oath, deny it if thou canst? Fal. Villain, thou didst deny the gold'sreceipt, And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner; For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeas'd. By the mass, 'tis morning; Pleasure and action make the hours seem short. If I can cross him any way, I bless myself everyway. If it were so, I might haue let aloneThe insulting hand of Dowglas ouer you,Which would haue bene as speedy in your end,As all the poysonous Potions in the world,And sau'd the Treacherous labour of your Sonne K. Some of those seven are dried by nature's course, Some of those branches by the Destinies cut; But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester, One vial full of Edward's sacred blood, One flourishing branch of his most royal root, Is crack'd, and all t Henry the fift is Crown'd: Vp Vanity,Downe Royall State: All you sage Counsailors, hence:And to the English Court, assemble nowFrom eu'ry Region, Apes of Idlenesse. I call thee Coward? Ile see thee damn'd ere I callthe Coward: but I would giue a thousand pound I couldrun as fast as thou canst. Who is it that hath warn'd us to the walls? KING PHILIP. Enter Leonato, [Antonio] his Brother, Hero his Daughter,and Beatrice his Niece, and a Kinsman; [also Margaret andUrsula]. I am no strumpet, but of life as honest As you that thus abuse me. You pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me? BRUTUS. You are both sure, and will assist me? Con. We have made peaceWith no less honour to the AntiatesThan shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,Subscribed by the consuls and patricians,Together with the seal o' the senate, whatWe have compounded on. First, my Feare: then, my Curtsie: last, my Speech. Be not offended:I speak not as in absolute fear of you. Enter Brutus, Dardanius, Clitus, Strato, and Volumnius. I shall driue you then to confesse the wilfullabuse, and then I know how to handle you Fal. I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your suspicionis not without wit and judgement. If it assume my noble father? person, I?l speak to it, though hell itself should gape And bid me hold my peace. It is the bright day that brings forth the adder And that craves wary walking. I like this faire proceeding of the Kings:He hath intent his wonted FollowersShall all be very well prouided for:But all are banisht, till their conuersationsAppeare more wise, and modest to the world Ch. Either you mustConfess yourselves wondrous malicious,Or be accus'd of folly. We may boldly spend, vpon the hopeOf what is to come in:A comfort of retyrement liues in this Hotsp. Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep? VARRO. He was to imagine mehis love, his mistress; and I set him every day to woo me; atwhich time would I, being but a moonish youth, grieve, beeffeminate, changeable, longing and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow, inconstant, full of tears, full of  But theirs is sweet'ned with the hope to have The present benefit which I possess; And hope to joy is little less in joy Than hope enjoy'd. I'll send her to you presently; And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor Out of the way, that your converse and business May be more free. But for which of my good parts did you first sufferlove for me? Bene. Enter the KING, and his attendants, below BOLINGBROKE. But, for true need You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need! You see me here, you gods, a poor old man, As full of grief as age; wretched in both. Nine or ten times I had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs. Beare Worcester to death, and Vernon too:Other offenders we will pause vpon. Treason is not inherited, my lord; Or, if we did derive it from our friends, What's that to me? My father was no traitor. And will deny him:I'll have five hundred voices of that sound. Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at mee: thebraine of this foolish compounded Clay-man, is not ableto inuent any thing that tends to laughter, more then Iinuent, or is inuented on me. Where have you hid yourself? How have you known the miseries of your father? Edg. Only to the plain form of marriage, and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards. Enter Leonato (Governor of Messina), Hero (his Daughter),and Beatrice (his Niece), with a Messenger. Enter a Gentleman with a bloody knife. I yet beseech your Majesty, If for I want that glib and oily art To speak and purpose not, since what I well intend, I'll do't before I speakthat you make known It is no vicious blot, murther, or foulness, No unchaste action or dishonoured step, That ha [Re-enter MARCIUS, bleeding, assaulted by the enemy. He is more patient Than when you left him; even now he sung. So when he had occasion to be seene,He was but as the Cuckow is in Iune,Heard, not regarded: seene but with such Eyes,As sicke and blunted with Communitie,Affoord no extraordinarie Gaze,Such as is bent on Sunne-like Maiestie,When it shines seldome in admThe enemies of Caesar shall say this: Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty. You know notWhether it was his wisdom or his fear. From whom hast thou this great commission, France, To draw my answer from thy articles? KING PHILIP. Enter the Constables [Dogberry and Verges] and the Sexton, ingowns,[and the Watch, with Conrade and] Borachio. Bid them home:Say their great enemy is gone, and theyStand in their ancient strength. The gracious DuncanWas pitied of Macbeth:--marry, he was dead:--And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late;Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,For Fleance fled. Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight; Bid him repair to us to Ely House To see this business. Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good life; but in respect that it is a shepherd's life, it isnought. Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of abeard. He doth fill fields with Harneis in the Realme,Turnes head against the Lyons armed Iawes;And being no more in debt to yeeres, then thou,Leades ancient Lords, and reuerent Bishops onTo bloody Battailes, and to brusing Armes. What mean, your Graces? Good my friends, consider You are my guests. --My partner in this action,You must report to the Volscian lords how plainlyI have borne this business. Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son Was kinder to his father than my daughters Got 'tween the lawful sheets. But yet I would your Father had beene here:The qualitie and Heire of our AttemptBrookes no diuision: It will be thoughtBy some, that know not why he is away,That wisedome, loyaltie, and meere dislikeOf our proceedings, kept the Earle from hence. See better, Lear, and let me still remain The true blank of thine eye. If he could right himself with quarrelling, Some of us would lie low. Blest pudding! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of hishand? Didst not mark that? RODERIGO. Till then, fair boy, Will I not think of home, but follow arms. So please you, it is true:--our thane is coming:One of my fellows had the speed of him;Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely moreThan would make up his message. Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine, Nor age so eat up my invention, Nor fortune made such havoc of my means, Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends, But they shall find awak'd in such a kind Both strength of limb and policy of mind, Abili Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through; See what a rent the envious Casca made; Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd; And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away, Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it, As rushing out of doors, to be reso Onlyhis gift is in devising impossible slanders. But did you think the Prince would have served you thus? Claud. Ha! I'll tell thee what: Thou'rt damn'd as black-nay, nothing is so black Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer; There is not yet so ugly a fiend of hell As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child. Now, where is hee, that will not stay so long,Till his Friend Sicknesse hath determin'd me? War. 'Tis Caesar that you mean, is it not, Cassius? CASSIUS. Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome; we would fainhave either. Re-enter Cassio; with him Montano and Gentlemen; Servants following with wine. I wouldunstate myself to be in a due resolution. There's no more faith in thee then a stu'de Prune;nor no more truth in thee, then in a drawne Fox: and forWooman-hood, Maid-marian may be the Deputies wifeof the Ward to thee. Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play the idlehuswife with me this afternoon. My Lord, I was borne with a white head, & somthinga round belly. What dost thou profess? What wouldst thou with us? Kent. Both which I haue had: but their date is out,and therefore Ile hide me. Had my sweet Harry had but halfe their Numbers,To day might I (hanging on Hotspurs Necke)Haue talk'd of Monmouth's Graue North. I think of as many matters as he;but I give heaven thanks, and make no boast of them. Faith, there have been many great men that have flattered thepeople, who ne'er loved them; and there be many that they haveloved, they know not wherefore; so that, if they love they knownot why, they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, forCoriolanus[aside] Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner? Leon. Nay then I cannot blame his Cousin King,That wish'd him on the barren Mountaines staru'd. That's not amiss; But yet keep time in all. Naught's had, all's spent,Where our desire is got without content:'Tis safer to be that which we destroy,Than, by destruction, dwell in doubtful joy. She that herself will sliver and disbranch From her material sap, perforce must wither And come to deadly use. Well, by my will, wee shall admit no Parley West. I do not sue to stand; Pardon is all the suit I have in hand. But in my terms of honour I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement Till by some elder masters of known honour I have a voice and precedent of peace To keep my name ungor?. Still harping on my daughter:?et he knew me not at first; he said I was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for love; very near this. If I do find him fit, I'll move your suit, And seek to effect it to my uttermost. Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows, Which shows like grief itself, but is not so; For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears, Divides one thing entire to many objects, Like perspectives which, rightly gaz'd upon, Show nothing but confusion- They sought their shame that so their shame did find; And so much less of shame in me remains By how much of me their reproach contains. Why Sir Iohn, what doe you thinke, Sir Iohn?doe you thinke I keepe Theeues in my House? I hauesearch'd, I haue enquired, so haz my Husband, Man byMan, Boy by Boy, Seruant by Seruant: the tight of ahayre was neuer lost in my house before Falst. All murders past do stand excus'd in this; And this, so sole and so unmatchable, Shall give a holiness, a purity, To the yet unbegotten sin of times, And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest, Exampled by this heinous spectacle. What's your Name, Sir? of what Condition areyou? and of what place, I pray? Col. Thou horson Mandrake, thou artfitter to be worne in my cap, then to wait at my heeles. How might we see Falstaffe bestow himselfe tonight, in his true colours, and not our selues be seene? Poin. You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first; 'tis a wordtoo great for any mouth of this age's size. Come, stand not amazed at it, but go along with me; I will show you such a necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound toput it on him. Look, look, Titinius: Are those my tents where I perceive the fire? TITINIUS. Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister, Of differences, which I best thought it fit To answer from our home. 1599THE TRAGEDY OF JULIUS CAESARby William ShakespeareDramatis Personae JULIUS CAESAR, Roman statesman and general OCTAVIUS, Triumvir after Caesar's death, later Augustus Caesar, first emperor of Rome MARK ANTONY, general and friend of Caesar, a TriumvirI heard a bustling rumor like a fray, And the wind brings it from the Capitol. No, by the rood, not so: You are the Queen, your husband? brother? wife, And,?ould it were not so!?ou are my mother. In the most high and palmy state of Rome, A little ere the mightiest Julius fell, The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets; As, stars with trains of fire and dews of blood, Disasters in the sun; and th Indeed, la, without an oath, I?l make an end on?: [Sings. No; that same wicked bastard of Venus, that was begotof thought, conceiv'd of spleen, and born of madness; that blind rascally boy, that abuses every one's eyes, because his ownare outlet him be judge how deep I am in love. Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth, Where nothing lives but crosses, cares, and grief. Marry then, Mouldie, Bull-calfe, Feeble, andShadow Falst. Will you dismiss the people?[Re-enter citizens. I graunt your Worship, that he is a knaue (Sir:)But yet heauen forbid Sir, but a Knaue should haue someCountenance, at his Friends request. Awake, awake!--Ring the alarum bell:--murder and treason!Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm! awake!Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,And look on death itself! up, up, and seeThe great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!As from your graves rise up, a If he fail of that, He will have other means to cut you off; I overheard him and his practices. But yet the pity of it, Iago! O Iago, the pity of it, Iago! IAGO. But there is little reason in your grief; Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now. If e'er your Grace had speech with man so poor, Hear me one word. I am indeed, sir, a surgeon to old shoes; when they arein great danger, I recover them. This is the right Fencinggrace (my Lord) tap for tap, and so part faire Ch. O, you're well met: the hoarded plague o' the godsRequite your love!MENENIUS. Hang him, swaggering Rascall, let him notcome hither: it is the foule-mouth'dst Rogue in England Host. You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me; Let not my worser spirit tempt me again To die before you please! Edg. Then there were two cousins laid up, when the oneshould be lam'd with reasons and the other mad without any. I cannot help it now,Unless by using means, I lame the footOf our design. Albeit you have deserv'd High commendation, true applause, and love, Yet such is now the Duke's condition That he misconstrues all that you have done. Hark you, Guildenstern;?nd you too;?t each ear a hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clouts. 'Tis just, And it is very much lamented, Brutus, That you have no such mirrors as will turn Your hidden worthiness into your eye That you might see your shadow. Suppose the singing birds musicians, The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd, The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more Than a delightful measure or a dance; For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite The man that mocks at it and sets Fortune, good night; smile once more, turn thy wheel. Shadow will serue for Summer: pricke him: Forwee haue a number of shadowes to fill vppe the Muster-Booke Shal. 'For lo, his passion, but an art of craft, Even there resolved my reason into tears; There my white stole of chastity I daffed, Shook off my sober guards and civil fears; Appear to him as he to me appears, All melting; though our drops this diff'rence b Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him! This was the most unkindest cut of all; For when the noble Caesar saw him stab, Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms, Quite vanquish'd him. No, in good sooth; the fire is dead with grief, Being create for comfort, to be us'd In undeserved extremes. O devil, devil! If that the earth could teem with woman's tears, Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile. 'Tis time to look about; the powersof the kingdom approach apace. Thou hast her, France; let her be thine; for we Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see That face of hers again. Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock, And strike you home without a messenger. What would you say to me now, anI were your very very Rosalind? ORLANDO. O setting sun, As in thy red rays thou dost sink to night, So in his red blood Cassius' day is set, The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone; Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done! Mistrust of my success hath done this deed. We do it wrong, being so ma jestical, To offer it the show of violence; For it is, as the air, invulnerable, And our vain blows malicious mockery. Would not this Naue of a Wheele haue hisEares cut off? Poin. As you are old and reverend, you should be wise. [Points at Lear] That's a sheal'd peascod. And therefore take the present time, With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, For love is crowned with the prime, In the spring time, &c. When I am known aright, you shall not grieve Lending me this acquaintance. Thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward! Thou little valiant, great in villainy! Thou ever strong upon the stronger side! Thou Fortune's champion that dost never fight But when her humorous ladyship is by To teach thee safety! Thou art perjur'd too, And so Come, let us hence and put on other weeds, And then to Leonato's we will go. --Both sides are even: here I'll sit i' the midst:[Enter first Murderer to the door. Doth it not shewvildely in me, to desire small Beere? Poin. Friends, I owe moe tears To this dead man than you shall see me pay. The man, I doe assure you, is not heere,For I my selfe at this time haue imploy'd him:And Sherife, I will engage my word to thee,That I will by to morrow Dinner time,Send him to answere thee, or any man,For any thing he shall be charg'd withall:And so l Child Rowland to the dark tower came; His word was still Fie, foh, and fum! I smell the blood of a British man. I could find in my heart to disgrace my man'sapparel, and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort the weakervessel, as doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous topetticoat; therefore, courage, good Aliena. Read on this book; That show of such an exercise may colour Your loneliness. Advances to Caesar. Passion, I see, is catching, for mine eyes, Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine, Began to water. 151 You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is,?Ham. He might have chid me so, for in good faith, I am a child to chiding. I am glad to see you in good troth, MasterShallow Shal. A peevish school boy, worthless of such honor, Join'd with a masker and a reveler! ANTONY. 'In him a plenitude of subtle matter, Applied to cautels, all strange forms receives, Of burning blushes or of weeping water, Or swooning paleness; and he takes and leaves, In either's aptness, as it best deceives, To blush at speeches rank, to weep at  Offer them instances; which shall bear no less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window, hear me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me Claudio; and bringthem to see this the very night before the intended wedding (forin the meantime I will so Charles waine is ouer the new Chimney, and yetour horse not packt. She was here even now; she haunts me in every place. Thou hadst little wit in thy baldcrown when thou gav'st thy golden one away. It beckons you to go away with it, As if it some impartment did desire To you alone. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam whereto he was c My errand is to you, fair youth; My gentle Phebe did bid me give you this. They saythe lady is fair--'tis a truth, I can bear them witness; andvirtuous --'tis so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for lovingme--by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argumentof her folly, for I will be horribly in love with he Come, swear it, damn thyself; Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves Should fear to seize thee. Hear, Nature, hear! dear goddess, hear! Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend To make this creature fruitful. In troth, I think I should, and undo't when I had done. Awake! What, ho, Brabantio! Thieves! Thieves! Thieves! Look to your house, your daughter, and your bags! Thieves! Thieves! Brabantio appears above, at a window. Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, andscorn me?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Gentlemen allalas, what shall I say? My credit now stands on such slippery ground, That one of two bad ways you must conceit me, Either a coward or a flatterer. Prethee let her alone, and list to mee Prince. A proper Gentlewoman, Sir, and a Kinswomanof my Masters Prin. My heart is great; but it must break with silence, Ere't be disburdened with a liberal tongue. "Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake and see thyself! Shall Rome, etc. He will the rather do it when he sees Ourselves well sinewed to our defence. As I am an honest man, I thought you had received somebodily wound; there is more sense in that than in reputation. Peace, break thee off; look where it comes again! [Enter Ghost, armed. Sir Iohn, I am thy Pistoll, and thy Friend: helterskelter haue I rode to thee, and tydings do I bring, andluckie ioyes, and golden Times, and happie Newes ofprice Fal. How now sir Iohn? What are you brauling here?Doth this become your place, your time, and businesse?You should haue bene well on your way to Yorke. So would I ha?done, by yonder sun, An thou hadst not come to my bed. If he do bleed,I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal,For it must seem their guilt. When Duncan is asleep,--Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journeySoundly invite him, his two chamberlainsWill I with wine and wassail so convinceThat memory, the warder of the brain,Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reasonA limbec only: when in  O me, my heart, my rising heart! But down! Fool. There's a Franklin in thewilde of Kent, hath brought three hundred Markes withhim in Gold: I heard him tell it to one of his company lastnight at Supper; a kinde of Auditor, one that hath abundanceof charge too (God knowes what) they are vp already,and  But what said Jaques? Did he not moralize this spectacle? FIRST LORD. But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the forest lays claimto you. You speake, as hauing power to do wrong: Butanswer in the effect of your Reputation, and satisfie thepoore woman Falst. Though other things grow fair against the sun, Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe. Our bodies are gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners;so that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce, set hyssop andweed up thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs or distract itwith many, either to have it sterile with idleness or manured wit As near as I could sift him on that argument, On some apparent danger seen in him Aim'd at your Highness-no inveterate malice. To be worst, The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune, Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear. Before the castleEnter ARTHUR, on the walls ARTHUR. Well, you shall haue it although I pawne myGowne. We'll leave you, Brutus, And, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember What you have said and show yourselves true Romans. Blood hath bought blood, and blows have answer'd blows; Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power; Both are alike, and both alike we like. The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit; The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell My mistress made it one upon my cheek; She is so hot because the meat is cold, The meat is cold because you come not home, You come not home because you have no s What beast was't, then,That made you break this enterprise to me?When you durst do it, then you were a man;And, to be more than what you were, you wouldBe so much more the man. See thyself, devil! Proper deformity seems not in the fiend So horrid as in woman. Within these three hours, Tullus,Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,And made what work I pleas'd: 'tis not my bloodWherein thou seest me mask'd: for thy revengeWrench up thy power to the highest. Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land; A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements. I giue thee leaue to tell me so? I lay a-side thatwhich growes to me? If thou get'st any leaue of me, hangme: if thou tak'st leaue, thou wer't better be hang'd: youHunt-counter, hence: Auant Ser. Good reverend father, make my person yours, And tell me how you would bestow yourself. They are all but stomachs and we all but food; They eat us hungerly, and when they are full They belch us. He does, he does; wee'l be reueng'd on him Wor. Lucius, a bowl of wine! Exit Lucius. When shall we three meet again?In thunder, lightning, or in rain?SECOND WITCH. My lord, some two days since I saw the Prince, And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford. Hie you, Messala, And I will seek for Pindarus the while. Heigh, heigh, the Deuill rides vpon a Fiddlesticke:what's the matter? Hostesse. O, I could Prophesie,But that the Earth, and the cold hand of death,Lyes on my Tongue: No Percy, thou art dustAnd food for Prin. How is this deriu'd?Saw you the Field? Came you from Shrewsbury? L. So mak'st thou faith an enemy to faith; And like. I'll follow thee a month, devise with theeWhere thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us,And we of thee: so, if the time thrust forthA cause for thy repeal, we shall not sendO'er the vast world to seek a single man;And lose advantage, which doth ever They shall not live within this world, I swear, But I will have them, if I once know where. Thefirst, the Retort Courteous; the second, the Quip Modest; the third,the Reply Churlish; the fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth,the Countercheck Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie withCircumstance; the seventh, the Lie Direct. The DUKE OF YORK's palaceEnter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUCHESS DUCHESS. And here have I the daintiness of ear To check time broke in a disorder'd string; But, for the concord of my state and time, Had not an ear to hear my true time broke. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too; For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither, That he, as ?were by accident, may here Affront Ophelia: Her father and myself,?awful espials,?Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen, We may of their encounter frankly jud A shorter time shall send me to you, Lords:And in my Conduct shall your Ladies come,From whom you now must steale, and take no leaue,For there will be a World of Water shed,Vpon the parting of your Wiues and you Hotsp. May one be pardon? and retain the offence? In the corrupted currents of this world Offence? gilded hand may shove by justice; And oft ?is seen the wicked prize itself Buys out the law; but ?is not so above; There is no shuffling;?here the action lies In But I must tell thee plainly, Claudio undergoes my challenge; and either I must shortly hear fromhim or I will subscribe him a coward. You shall also make no noise in the streets; forfor the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not tobe endured. Thus haue you heard our causes, & kno our Means:And my most noble Friends, I pray you allSpeake plainly your opinions of our hopes,And first (Lord Marshall) what say you to it? Mow. To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it; Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole116 A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee. Howsoever you have been his liar,--as you say you have, I am onethat, telling true under him, must say you cannot pass. To conclude, I amso good a proficient in one quarter of an houre, that I candrinke with any Tinker in his owne Language during mylife. Let the first budger die the other's slave,And the gods doom him after!AUFIDIUS. Now keep your holy word; go meet the French; And from his Holiness use all your power To stop their marches fore we are inflam'd. I blame you not for praising Caesar so; But what compact mean you to have with us? Will you be prick'd in number of our friends, Or shall we on, and not depend on you? ANTONY. Raphe Mouldie: let them appeare as I call:let them do so, let them do so: Let mee see, Where isMouldie? Moul. Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit. I have trod a measure; I have flatt'red a lady; I have been politic with my friend, smooth with mine enemy; I have undone three tailors; I have had four quarrels, and like to havefought one. My dearest coz,I pray you, school yourself: but, for your husband,He is noble, wise, Judicious, and best knowsThe fits o' the season. A plague vpon't, when Theeues cannot betrue one to another. But it is certain I am lovedof all ladies, only you excepted; and I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart, for truly I love none. O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world Shall so wear out to naught. I say thou hast belied mine innocent child; Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart, And she lied buried with her ancestors O, in a tomb where never scandal slept, Save this of hers, fram'd by thy villany! Claud. And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that: an hehad stayed by him, I would not have been so fidiused for all thechests in Corioli and the gold that's in them. Enter Gloucester with a torch. But thou didst understand me by my signs, And didst in signs again parley with sin; Yea, without stop, didst let thy heart consent, And consequently thy rude hand to act The deed which both our tongues held vile to name. O, sir, you are old! Nature in you stands on the very verge Of her confine. Why doth the Crowne lye there, vpon his Pillow,Being so troublesome a Bed-fellow?O pollish'd Perturbation! Golden Care!That keep'st the Ports of Slumber open wide,To many a watchfull Night: sleepe with it now,Yet not so sound, and halfe so deepely sweeteWhat mean'st thou by that? Mend me, thou saucyfellow! SECOND COMMONER. Now, signior, where's the Count? Did you see him? Bene. He shall well knowThe noble tribunes are the people's mouths,And we their hands. When a man's over-lusty at legs, then he wears wooden nether-stocks. Away, away you trifler: Loue, I loue thee not,I care not for thee Kate: this is no worldTo play with Mammets, and to tilt with lips. --I'll tell thee what;--yet go;--Nay, but thou shalt stay too:--I would my sonWere in Arabia, and thy tribe before him, His good sword in his hand. One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part; Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart. Sir, in good faith, in sincere verity, Under th' allowance of your great aspect, Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire On flickering Phoebus' front Corn. So did your Sonne,He was so suffer'd; so came I a Widow:And neuer shall haue length of Life enough,To raine vpon Remembrance with mine Eyes,That it may grow, and sprowt, as high as Heauen,For Recordation to my Noble Husband North. What cracker is this same that deafs our ears With this abundance of superfluous breath? King Philip, determine what we shall do straight. You should be rul'd, and led By some discretion that discerns your state Better than you yourself. I but believe it partly, For I am fresh of spirit and resolved To meet all perils very constantly. Mark Antony shall say I am not well, And, for thy humor, I will stay at home. How malicious is my fortune that I must repent to be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which approves him an intelligent party to the advantages of France. The setting sun, and music at the close, As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last, Writ in remembrance more than things long past. By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue. Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby, Receive thy lance; and God defend the right! BOLINGBROKE. Now the Lord lighten thee, thou art a greatFoole. Borrowing onely lingers, and lingers it out,but the disease is incureable. Peace, and be still! DESDEMONA. Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge Had stomach for them all. I hear it by the way; but I will send:There's not a one of them but in his houseI keep a servant fee'd. My mother had a maid call'd Barbary; She was in love, and he she loved proved mad And did forsake her. For my part, I am so attir'd in wonder, I know not what to say. Away, you rascally Altheas dreame, away Prin. Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not, But with an angry waiter of your hand Gave sign for me to leave you. To take the widow Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril; And hardly shall I carry out my side, Her husband being alive. Is it fit, The three-fold world divided, he should stand One of the three to share it? OCTAVIUS. Choose your revenge yourself; Impose me to what penance your invention Can lay upon my sin. And shall these hands, so lately purg'd of blood, So newly join'd in love, so strong in both, Unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet? Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven, Make such unconstant children of ourselves, As now again to sna Hark, moreknocking:Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call usAnd show us to be watchers:--be not lostSo poorly in your thoughts. O noble fellow!Who sensible, outdares his senseless sword,And when it bows stands up! Thou art left, Marcius:A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,Were not so rich a jewel. Enter Archbishop, Hastings, Mowbray, and Lord Bardolfe. --All my pretty ones?Did you say all?--O hell-kite!--All?What, all my pretty chickens and their damAt one fell swoop?MALCOLM. But who comes here? Enter AUMERLE amazed AUMERLE. Yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou wast the proper'st man in Italy. When remedies are past, the griefs are ended By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended. And Heauen defend, but still I should stand so,So long as out of Limit, and true Rule,You stand against anoynted Maiestie. Vp, and away,Our Souldiers stand full fairely for the day. Up higher to the plain, where we'll set forth In best appointment all our regiments. So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing, I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away. So when this loose behauiour I throw off,And pay the debt I neuer promised;By how much better then my word I am,By so much shall I falsifie mens hopes,And like bright Mettall on a sullen ground:My reformation glittering o're my fault,Shall shew more goodIndeed you come neere me now Hal, for we thattake Purses, go by the Moone and seuen Starres, and notby Phoebus hee, that wand'ring Knight so faire. As whence the sun 'gins his reflectionShipwrecking storms and direful thunders break;So from that spring, whence comfort seem'd to comeDiscomfort swells. How now, Dame Partlet the Hen, haue you enquir'd yetwho pick'd my Pocket? Hostesse. Look what I speak, my life shall prove it true That Mowbray hath receiv'd eight thousand nobles In name of lendings for your Highness' soldiers, The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments Like a false traitor and injurious villain. Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love. I would not have such a heart in my bosom for thedignity of the whole body. No deeper wrinkles yet? Hath sorrow struck So many blows upon this face of mine And made no deeper wounds? O flatt'ring glass, Like to my followers in prosperity, Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face That every day under his household roof Did k Enter Falstaffe, Shallow, Silence, Bardolfe, Page, and Pistoll. I will seek him, sir, presently; convey the business as I shall find means, and acquaint you withal. Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony, who, though hehad no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying,a place in the commonwealth, as which of you shall not? Withthis I departthat, as I slew my best lover for the good of Rome, I ha Pour down thy weather-how goes all in France? MESSENGER. I would do much To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio. If he be now return??As checking at his voyage, and that he means No more to undertake it,? will work him To exploit, now ripe in my device, Under the which he shall not choose but fall: And for his death no wind shall breathe; But even his mother shall Whiles we have struck,By interims and conveying gusts we have heardThe charges of our friends. Is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts? [To Edgar] You, sirI entertain you for one of my hundred; only I do not like the fashion of your garments. Lo, in this right hand, whose protection Is most divinely vow'd upon the right Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet, Son to the elder brother of this man, And king o'er him and all that he enjoys; For this down-trodden equity we tread In warlike ma It will be two of the Clocke, ere they comefrom the Coronation. Excellent, i?faith; of the chameleon? dish: I eat the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so. Prethee peace: pay her the debt you owe her, andvnpay the villany you haue done her: the one you may dowith sterling mony, & the other with currant repentance Fal. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there? hope a great man? memory may outlive his life half a year: but, by? lady, he must build churches then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is ?or, There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet They be alone. I do, my lord, and in her eye I find A wonder, or a wondrous miracle, The shadow of myself form'd in her eye; Which, being but the shadow of your son, Becomes a sun, and makes your son a shadow. Well, fare thee well: I haue knowne theethese twentie nine yeeres, come Pescod-time: but anhonester, and truer-hearted manWell, fare theewell Bard. Enter ROSALIND ROSALIND. Enter Hero and two Gentlewomen, Margaret and Ursula. All Victuallers doe so: What is a Ioynt ofMutton, or two, in a whole Lent? Prince. Let her not walk i?the sun: conception is a blessing, but not as your daughter may conceive:?riend, look to?. Do it, England; For like the hectic in my blood he rages, And thou must cure me: till I know ?is done, Howe?r my haps, my joys were ne?r begun. Nor shall it Harry, for the houre is comeTo end the one of vs; and would to heauen,Thy name in Armes, were now as great as mine Prin. What I can do I will; and more I will Than for myself I dare. A credulous father! and a brother noble, Whose nature is so far from doing harms That he suspects none; on whose foolish honesty My practices ride easy! I see the business. Once did I get him bound and sent him home, Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went, That here and there his fury had committed. The Knaue is mine honest Friend Sir,therefore I beseech your Worship, let him bee Countenanc'd Shal. Well, I must do't:Away, my disposition, and possess meSome harlot's spirit! My throat of war be turn'd,Which quired with my drum, into a pipeSmall as an eunuch, or the virgin voiceThat babies lulls asleep! the smiles of knavesTent in my cheeks; and schooThen half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John'smouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face- Beat. He falls [forward and swoons]. Be it so; go back: the virtue of your nameIs not here passable. And good Master Corporall Captaine, for myold Dames sake, stand my friend: shee hath no body todoe any thing about her, when I am gone: and she is old,and cannot helpe her selfe: you shall haue fortie, sir Bard. When we meane to build,We first suruey the Plot, then draw the Modell,And when we see the figure of the house,Then must we rate the cost of the Erection,Which if we finde out-weighes Ability,What do we then, but draw a-new the ModellIn fewer offices? Or It is very iust: Looke, heere comes good SirIohn. I know not at whose suit he is arrested well; But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell. You say that you'll have Phebe, if she will? SILVIUS. She'll taste as like this as a crab does to a crab. It was his word: O, he would miss it ratherThan carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,And the desire of the nobles. Come, Desdemona, Once more well met at Cyprus. How ill it followes, after you haue labour'd sohard, you should talke so idlely? Tell me how many goodyong Princes would do so, their Fathers lying so sicke, asyours is? Prin. Markme with what violence she first loved the Moor, but for braggingand telling her fantastical lies. No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood could not do it. 1609A LOVER'S COMPLAINTby William Shakespeare From off a hill whose concave womb reworded A plaintful story from a sist'ring vale, My spirits t'attend this double voice accorded, And down I laid to list the sad-tuned tale, Ere long espied a fickle maid fI cannot speake: if my heart bee not readieto burstWell (sweete Iacke) haue a care of thyselfe Falst. I do beseech your Grace, Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me. She's gone for ever! I know when one is dead, and when one lives. Enter KING JOHN, KING PHILIP, LEWIS, BLANCH, ELINOR, the BASTARD, AUSTRIA, and attendants KING PHILIP. But, look, amazement on thy mother sits: O, step between her and her fighting soul,?104 Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works,?Speak to her, Hamlet. Though their injunction be to bar my doors And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you, Yet have I ventur'd to come seek you out And bring you where both fire and food is ready. I know not if't be true, But I for mere suspicion in that kind Will do as if for surety. Marry, that can Hero! Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue. Plucking the entrails of an offering forth, They could not find a heart within the beast. His prayers are full of false hypocrisy; Ours of true zeal and deep integrity. We charge you that you have contriv'd to takeFrom Rome all season'd office, and to windYourself into a power tyrannical;For which you are a traitor to the people. But say, sir, is it dinnertime?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Let us go; If you say ay, the King will not say no. If Cassio do remain, He hath a daily beauty in his life That makes me ugly; and besides, the Moor May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril. Enter SALISBURY Welcome, my lord. Wert thou the HectorThat was the whip of your bragg'd progeny, Thou shouldst not scape me here. But Francis, darest thou be so valiant, asto play the coward with thy Indenture, & show it a fairepaire of heeles, and run from it? Fran. Here hung those lips that I have kiss? I know not how oft. He had, my lord, and when he ran in here, These people saw the chain about his neck. We two, saw you foure set on foure and boundthem, and were Masters of their Wealth: mark now howa plaine Tale shall put you downe. Enough, speakno more of him; you'll be whipt for taxation one of these days. Yes: and you knew me, as you did when youranne away by Gads-hill: you knew I was at your back,and spoke it on purpose, to trie my patience Fal. "King Stephen was and-a worthy peer, His breeches cost him but a crown; He held them sixpence all too dear, With that he call'd the tailor lown. Ay, smile upon her, do; I will gyve thee in thine own courtship. Those opposed eyes,Which like the Meteors of a troubled Heauen,All of one Nature, of one Substance bred,Did lately meete in the intestine shocke,And furious cloze of ciuill Butchery,Shall now in mutuall well-beseeming rankesMarch all one way, and be no  The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus. Now Trauers, what good tidings comes fro[m] you? Tra. I do not in position Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear, Her will, recoiling to her better judgement, May fall to match you with her country forms, And happily repent. Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further. He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf; The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter, That seem'd in eating him to hold him up, Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke I mean the Earl of Wilt At length the sun, gazing upon the earth, Dispers'd those vapours that offended us; And, by the benefit of his wished light, The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered Two ships from far making amain to us Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this. He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him. I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart. Why do you say, thwack our general?THIRD SERVANT. --Do we but find the tyrant's power to-night,Let us be beaten, if we cannot fight. It is silliness to live when to live is torment, andthen have we a prescription to die when death is our physician. For once, upon a raw and gusty day, The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores, Caesar said to me, "Darest thou, Cassius, now Leap in with me into this angry flood And swim to yonder point?" Upon the word, Accoutred as I was, I plunged in And bade him f Ask her forgiveness? Do you but mark how this becomes the house: 'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old. I commend me to thee, I commend thee, and I leaue thee. To punish you by the heeles, would amend theattention of your eares, & I care not if I be your Physitian Fal. Away, away, be gone! Exit Poet. In sleep I heard him say, "Sweet Desdemona, Let us be wary, let us hide our loves"; And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand, Cry, "O sweet creature!" and then kiss me hard, As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots, That grew upon my lips; then la Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking? IAGO. My noble uncle! [Kneels] YORK. One doth not know How much an ill word may empoison liking. What you would have I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave. Let Heauen kisse Earth: now let not Natures handKeepe the wilde Flood confin'd: Let Order dye,And let the world no longer be a stageTo feede Contention in a ling'ring Act:But let one spirit of the First-borne CaineReigne in all bosomes, that each heart bIf I sent him word again it was not well cut, hewould send me word he cut it to please himself. Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see I talk but idly, and you laugh at me. 150 Nay, in good faith; for mine ease, in good faith. Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine; Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine, Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state, Makes me with thy strength to communicate. Therefore never, never Must I behold my pretty Arthur more. Enter the King, Lord Iohn of Lancaster, Earle of Westmerland,withothers. Heaven and earth! Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him As if increase of appetite had grown By what it fed on: and yet, within a month,?Let me not think on?,?railty, thy name is woman!?A little month; or ere those shoes were old With which she fo Which to auoyd,I cut them off: and had a purpose nowTo leade out many to the Holy Land;Least rest, and lying still, might make them lookeToo neere vnto my State. Now, what's the business? SAILOR. 'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest And must needs taste his folly. Lest it make you choleric, and purchase me another dry basting. Alas, what does this gentleman conceive? How do you, madam? How do you, my good lady? DESDEMONA. You shall mark Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave, That doting on his own obsequious bondage Wears out his time, much like his master's ass, For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd. I would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it. Now, by heaven, My blood begins my safer guides to rule, And passion, having my best judgement collied, Assays to lead the way. I shall serve you, sir, Truly, however else. Alack, 'tis he! Why, he was met even now As mad as the vex'd sea, singing aloud, Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow weeds, With hardocks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo flow'rs, Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow In our sustaining corn. We are sentTo give thee, from our royal master, thanks;Only to herald thee into his sight,Not pay thee. I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time. Give me leave,I'll go to him and undertake to bring himWhere he shall answer, by a lawful form,In peace, to his utmost peril. That bucket down and fun of tears am I, Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high. Dost thou squiny atme? No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not love. If it be mine,Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it. I speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge, insomuch I say I knowyou are; neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may insome little measure draw a belief from you, to do yourself good,and not to grace me. O, lawful let it be That I have room with Rome to curse awhile! Good father Cardinal, cry thou 'amen' To my keen curses; for without my wrong There is no tongue hath power to curse him right. Pardon me, madam, I may not go without you to the kings. Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,--CaiusMarcius. Speake of Mortimer?Yes, I will speake of him, and let my souleWant mercy, if I do not ioyne with him. No, my heart is turned to stone; I strikeit, and it hurts my hand. O, treble woe Fall ten times treble on that cursed head144 Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense Depriv? thee of !?old off the earth awhile, Till I have caught her once more in mine arms: [Leaps into the grave. Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound And lie full low, grav'd in the hollow ground. If he be so resolved, I can o'ersway him, for he loves to hear That unicorns may be betray'd with trees, And bears with glasses, elephants with holes, Lions with toils, and men with flatterers; But when I tell him he hates flatterers, He says he does, b For your wants,Your suffering in this dearth, you may as wellStrike at the heaven with your staves as lift themAgainst the Roman state; whose course will onThe way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbsOf more strong link asunder than can everAppear in y How now? whose Mare's dead? what's the matter? Fang. I peace? No, I will speak as liberal as the north; Let heaven and men and devils, let them all, All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak. I'll tell thee how Beatrice prais'd thy wit the otherday. Crying, "O dear Cassio!" as it were; his gestureimports it. For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster, The honourable father to my foe, Once did I lay an ambush for your life, A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul; But ere I last receiv'd the sacrament I did confess it, and exactly begg'd Your Grace's pardon; and I Caesar should be a beast without a heart If he should stay at home today for fear. Then to you (Mistris Dorothie) I will chargeyou Dol. Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men To execute the noble Duke at Calais. And as I truly fight, defend me heaven! The trumpets sound. Good fortune come to thee! For thou wast got i' th' way of honesty. This woman that I mean, My wife-but, I protest, without desert Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal; To her will we to dinner. A noble boy! Who would not do thee right? AUSTRIA. Know you not, master, to some kind of men Their graces serve them but as enemies? No more do yours. The palaceEnter RICHARD, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other NOBLES and attendants KING RICHARD. Come, we'll inform themOf our proceedings here: on the market-placeI know they do attend us. This new, and gorgeous Garment, Maiesty,Sits not so easie on me, as you thinke. Rightly reasoned, and in his own division; and by mytroth there's one meaning well suited. What a night 's this! I do beseech your Grace Lear. None my Lord, but old Mistris Quickly, and M[istris]. I do beseech you,By all the battles wherein we have fought,By the blood we have shed together, by the vows We have made to endure friends, that you directlySet me against Aufidius and his Antiates;And that you not delay the present, but,Filling the air wBut be he as he will, yet once ere night,I will imbrace him with a Souldiers arme,That he shall shrinke vnder my curtesie. If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown meWithout my stir. I am not gamesome; I do lack some part Of that quick spirit that is in Antony. Din'd at home! Thou villain, what sayestthou?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. [Exeunt some of the Servants. I know it, uncle; and oppose not myself Against their will. Had I but died an hour before this chance,I had liv'd a blessed time; for, from this instantThere's nothing serious in mortality:All is but toys: renown and grace is dead;The wine of life is drawn, and the mere leesIs left this vault to brag of. I smell it:Vpon my life, it will do wond'rous well Nor. If you will follow me, I will show you enough; and whenyou have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly. Upon the crown o' th' cliff what thing was that Which parted from you? Glou. He spake it twice And urg'd it twice together, did he not? SERVANT. Flourish and shout. I do remember in this shepherd boy Some lively touches of my daughter's favour. If you looke for agood speech now, you vndoe me: For what I haue to say, isof mine owne making: and what (indeed) I should say, will(I doubt) prooue mine owne marring. I ran it through, even from my boyish days To the very moment that he bade me tell it: Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances, Of moving accidents by flood and field, Of hair-breadth 'scapes i' the imminent deadly breach, Of being taken by the insol Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate;But certain issue strokes must arbitrate:Towards which advance the war. [To ORLANDO] To you I give myself, for I am yours. Only be patient till we have appeased The multitude, beside themselves with fear, And then we will deliver you the cause Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him, Have thus proceeded. Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford? Is not Gaunt dead? and doth not Hereford live? Was not Gaunt just? and is not Harry true? Did not the one deserve to have an heir? Is not his heir a well-deservin Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio; but the devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which first possess'd them, partly by the dark night, which diddeceive them, but chiefly by my villany, which did confirm anyslander that Do Often 'twould say 'The fiend, the fiend'he led me to that place. Yea, but marke how he beares his course,And runnes me vp, with like aduantage on the other side,Gelding the opposed Continent as much,As on the other side it takes from you Worc. Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame! Bemonster not thy feature! Were't my fitness To let these hands obey my blood, They are apt enough to dislocate and tear Thy flesh and bones. Shall remain!--Hear you this Triton of the minnows? mark youHis absolute 'shall'?COMINIUS. All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not scape; The Duke must grant me that. My holy lord of Milan, from the King I come, to learn how you have dealt for him; And, as you answer, I do know the scope And warrant limited unto my tongue. And in that very Line, Harry, standest thou:For thou hast lost thy Princely Priuiledge,With vile participation. That which in mean men we entitle patience Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts. Great King, within this coffin I present Thy buried fear. --If charnel houses and our graves must sendThose that we bury back, our monumentsShall be the maws of kites. Enter OLIVER ADAM. After him, came spurring headA Gentleman (almost fore-spent with speed)That stopp'd by me, to breath his bloodied horse. The FRENCH KING's campEnter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, PANDULPH, and attendants KING PHILIP. Why, there thou say?t: and the more pity that great folk should have countenance in this world to drown or hang themselves more than their even Christian. Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to the From plume-pluck'd Richard, who with willing soul Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields To the possession of thy royal hand. How all occasions do inform against me And spur my dull revenge! What is a man, If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more. Your brother is but young and tender; and, for your love, Iwould be loath to foil him, as I must, for my own honour, if hecome in; therefore, out of my love to you, I came hither toacquaint you withal, that either you might stay him from hisintendment,  How I have sped among the clergymen The sums I have collected shall express. These many then shall die, their names are prick'd. Octavius, then take him to follow thee That did the latest service to my master. The most peaceable way for you, if youdo take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is, andsteal out of your company. And then the lover, Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad Made to his mistress' eyebrow. The observation we have made of it hath not been little. Nay, if you haue not, too't againe,Wee'l stay your leysure Hot. I thinke to steale Creame indeed, for thy thefthath alreadie made thee Butter: but tell me, Iack, whosefellowes are these that come after? Falst. Because that now it lies you on to speakTo the people; not by your own instruction,Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you,But with such words that are but rooted inYour tongue, though but bastards and syllablesOf no allowance, to your bosom's truAnd that is the wavering commons; for their love Lies in their purses; and whoso empties them, By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate. But as I travell'd hither through the land, I find the people strangely fantasied; Possess'd with rumours, full of idle dreams. Yet again your fingers to yourlips? Would they were clyster-pipes for your sake! [Trumpetwithin. Hear me one word;Beseech you, tribunes, hear me but a word. Here? a skull now; this skull hath lain in the earth three-and-twenty years. The sport will be, whenthey hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter. Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;Thou hast harp'd my fear aright:--but one word more,--FIRST WITCH. Had he been where he thought, By this had thought been past. Now, whether he kill Cassio, Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other, Every way makes my gain. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far more choler. But yet, I say, If imputation and strong circumstances, Which lead directly to the door of truth, Will give you satisfaction, you may have't. Owen, Owen; the same, and his Sonne in LawMortimer, and old Northumberland, and the sprightlyScot of Scots, Dowglas, that runnes a Horse-backe vp aHill perpendicular Prin. How now, my dear Othello! Your dinner, and the generous islanders By you invited, do attend your presence. Your power and your command is taken off, And Cassio rules in Cyprus. You have madeGood work, you and your cry!--Shall's to the Capitol?COMINIUS. He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain From the excess of laughter. Grief fills the room up of my absent child, Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me, Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words, Remembers me of all his gracious parts, Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form; Then have I reason to be fond of g O, good my Lord, you haue lost a friend indeed:And I dare sweare, you borrow not that faceOf seeming sorrow, it is sure your owne Iohn. I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain; I hope you do not mean to cheat me so. Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!--What should the people do with these bald tribunes?On whom depending, their obedience failsTo the greater bench: in a rebellion,When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,Then were they chosen; in a better hourL[Exeunt Don Pedro, Don Juan, and Claudio. Not from his mouth, Had it the ability of life to thank you: He never gave commandment for their death. Your son and daughter found this trespass worth The shame which here it suffers. Sing, siren, for thyself, and I will dote; Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs, And as a bed I'll take them, and there he; And in that glorious supposition think He gains by death that hath such means to die. Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, andswear by your beards that I am a knave. He loves no plays, As thou dost, Antony; he hears no music; Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit That could be moved to smile at anything. Sir, there is especial commission come from Venice todepute Cassio in Othello's place. Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar I have not slept. Send me your Prisoners with the speediest meanes,Or you shall heare in such a kinde from meAs will displease ye. But wherefore art not in thy shop today? Why dost thou lead these men about the streets? SECOND COMMONER. If Sacke and Sugar bee a fault,Heauen helpe the Wicked: if to be olde and merry, be asinne, then many an olde Hoste that I know, is damn'd:if to be fat, be to be hated, then Pharaohs leane Kine areto be loued. A mancan no more separate Age and Couetousnesse, then he canpart yong limbes and letchery: but the Gowt galles theone, and the pox pinches the other; and so both the Degreespreuent my curses. Where's the Roll? Where's the Roll? Where'sthe Roll? Let me see, let me see, let me see: so, so, so, so:yea marry Sir. Were they not mine? Did they not sometime cry 'All hail!' to me? So Judas did to Christ; but he, in twelve, Found truth in all but one; I, in twelve thousand, none. Behold our patroness, the life of Rome!Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them:Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;Cry, 'Welcome, ladies, welcome!'-Though well we may not pass upon his life Without the form of justice, yet our power Shall do a court'sy to our wrath, which men May blame, but not control. Let's see his pockets; these letters that he speaks of May be my friends. O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons, From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame, Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd, Which art possess'd now to depose thyself. --Boy! False hound!If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, IFlutter'd your Volscians in Corioli:Alone I did it. Within me is a hell; and there the poison Is as a fiend confin'd to tyrannize On unreprievable condemned blood. Harm have I done to them, but ne'er was harmed; Kept hearts in liveries, but mine own was free, And reigned commanding in his monarchy. Cousins, I hope the days are near at handThat chambers will be safe. The Postes come tyring on,And not a man of them brings other newesThen they haue learn'd of Me. And till she come, as truly as to heaven I do confess the vices of my blood, So justly to your grave ears I'll present How I did thrive in this fair lady's love And she in mine. There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowshipin thee, nor thou cam'st not of the blood-royall,if thou dar'st not stand for ten shillings Prin. Say, is your tardy master now at hand?DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Who's yonder,That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods!He has the stamp of Marcius; and I haveBefore-time seen him thus. I am an ass, I am a woman's man, and besides myself. Your Fathers sicknesse is a mayme to vs Hotsp. I have been studying how I may compare This prison where I live unto the world And, for because the world is populous And here is not a creature but myself, I cannot do it. Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius, To cut the head off and then hack the limbs Like wrath in death and envy afterwards; For Antony is but a limb of Caesar. O Cassius, if you could But win the noble Brutus to our party CASSIUS. Caesar, all hail! Good morrow, worthy Caesar! I come to fetch you to the Senate House. In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted I heard you say 'Is not my arm of length, That reacheth from the restful English Court As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?' Amongst much other talk that very time I heard you say that you had rat If you knew how much they doe import,You would make haste Sir Mich. ' Right! Many a man has good horns and knows noend of them. For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,Of this most wise rebellion, thou go'st foremost:Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,Lead'st first to win some vantage. Good faith, how foolish are our minds! If I do die before thee, prithee shroud me In one of those same sheets. Do you findYour patience so predominant in your nature,That you can let this go? Are you so gospell'd,To pray for this good man and for his issue,Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave,And beggar'd yours forever?FIRST MURDERER. For confirmation that I am much more Than my out-wall, open this purse and take What it contains. You have broughtA trembling upon Rome, such as was neverSo incapable of help. I wish no betterThan have him hold that purpose, and to put itIn execution. Gratiano, keep the house, And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor, For they succeed on you. O, what a fall was there, my countrymen! Then I, and you, and all of us fell down, Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us. Ay, sir, and wherefore; for they say every why hath a wherefore. Shall we be sund'red? Shall we part, sweet girl? No; let my father seek another heir. Such smiling rogues as these, Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion That in the natures of their lords rebel, Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods; Renege, affirm, and turn their halcy Do their gay vestments his affections bait? That's not my fault; he's master of my state. Then senseless Ilium, Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top Stoops to his base; and with a hideous crash Takes prisoner Pyrrhus?ear: for lo! his sword, Which was declining on the milky head Of reverend Priam, seem? i?the air to stick: So, as a pai Doe so, for it is worth the listning too: thesenine in Buckrom, that I told thee of Prin. Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio! IAGO. I am vndone with his going: I warrant he is aninfinitiue thing vpon my score. Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm, To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers. Hear me, my masters and my common friends,--SICINIUS. Set on your foot, And with a heart new-fired I follow you, To do I know not what; but it sufficeth That Brutus leads me on. Tell her I am arrested in the street, And that shall bail me; hie thee, slave, be gone. The forestEnter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY TOUCHSTONE. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a thousand ducats. So fought the Noble Dowglas,Stopping my greedy eare, with their bold deeds. Discern'st thou aught in that? Is he not honest? IAGO. Long live she so! and long live you to think so! OTHELLO. Exeunt France and Cordelia. If the midnight bell Did with his iron tongue and brazen mouth Sound on into the drowsy race of night; If this same were a churchyard where we stand, And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs; Or if that surly spirit, melancholy, Had bak'd thy blood and Men should be what they seem; Or those that be not, would they might seem none! OTHELLO. I know not: heere hee is, and heere I yeeldhim: and I beseech your Grace, let it be book'd, withthe rest of this dayes deedes; or I sweare, I will haue itin a particular Ballad, with mine owne Picture on the topof it (Colleuile kissing my foot:) To the  A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd Before the always-wind-obeying deep Gave any tragic instance of our harm: But longer did we not retain much hope, For what obscured light the heavens did grant Did but convey unto our fearful minds A doubtful warran My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold; And these and all are all amiss employ'd. These signs forerun the death or fall of kings. Thou unadvised scold, I can produce A will that bars the title of thy son. What means this shouting? I do fear the people Choose Caesar for their king. And also the watch heardthem talk of one Deformed. Must I rob the law? [Drawing hissword] BASTARD. I prithee, name the time, but let it not Exceed three days. And to make us no better thought of, a little help will serve;for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck not to callus the many-headed multitude. My lord, I have remembrances of yours That I have longed long to re-deliver. The goodyears shall devour 'em, flesh and fell, Ere they shall make us weep! We'll see 'em starv'd first. Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out? LUCIUS. Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come, As we do trace this alley up and down, Our talk must only be of Benedick. Just, if he send me no husband; for the which blessing Iam at him upon my knees every morning and evening. You must sing ?own a-down, an you call him a-down-a. So are the Horses of the EnemieIn generall iourney bated, and brought low:The better part of ours are full of rest Worc. Sit down awhile, And let us once again assail your ears, That are so fortified against our story, What we two nights have seen. I know it;And my pretext to strike at him admitsA good construction. Hear me profess sincerely,--had I a dozensons, each in my love alike, and none less dear than thine and mygood Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their countrythan one voluptuously surfeit out of action. O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not! OTHELLO. Ah, madam, 'tis too true; and that is worse, The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy, The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby, With all their powerful friends, are fled to him. Go plucke him by the Elbow, I must speake with him Ser. The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well;but civil count--civil as an orange, and something of thatjealous complexion. To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will. Now, I do love her too, Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure I stand accountant for as great a sin, But partly led to diet my revenge, For that I do suspect the lusty Moor Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof Doth like a poisonous mine Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjur'd kings! A widow cries: Be husband to me, heavens! Let not the hours of this ungodly day Wear out the day in peace; but, ere sunset, Set armed discord 'twixt these perjur'd kings! Hear me, O, hear me! AUSTRIA. For this business, It toucheth us as France invades our land, Not bolds the King, with others whom, I fear, Most just and heavy causes make oppose. You taught me how to know the face of right, Acquainted me with interest to this land, Yea, thrust this enterprise into my heart; And come ye now to tell me John hath made His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me? I, by the honour of my marriage-be O, spare mine eyes, Though to no use but still to look on you! Lo, by my troth, the instrument is cold And would not harm me. Here's eight that must take hands To join in Hymen's bands, If truth holds true contents. Pricke the womansTaylour well Master Shallow, deepe Maister Shallow Feeble. Would thou hadst less deserv'd;That the proportion both of thanks and paymentMight have been mine! only I have left to say,More is thy due than more than all can pay. You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir?AEGEON. Name the day ofmarriage, and God give thee joy! Leon. No: on the barren Mountaine let him sterue:For I shall neuer hold that man my Friend,Whose tongue shall aske me for one peny costTo ransome home reuolted Mortimer Hot. Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her! Come, go with me apart; I will withdraw, To furnish me with some swift means of death For the fair devil. If that RebellionCame like it selfe, in base and abiect Routs,Led on by bloodie Youth, guarded with Rage,And countenanc'd by Boyes, and Beggerie:I say, if damn'd Commotion so appeare,In his true, natiue, and most proper shape,You (Reuerend Father, and t Th' advantage of his absence took the King, And in the meantime sojourn'd at my father's; Where how he did prevail I shame to speak But truth is truth: large lengths of seas and shores Between my father and my mother lay, As I have heard my father speak I will no longer endure it, though yet I knowno wise remedy how to avoid it. I shall lessen God'ssending that way, for it is said, 'God sends a curst cow shorthorns,' but to a cow too curst he sends none. Even just the sum that I do owe to you Is growing to me by Antipholus; And in the instant that I met with you He had of me a chain; at five o'clock I shall receive the money for the same. What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged. But indeed, sir, we make holiday to seeCaesar and to rejoice in his triumph. There lay he, stretch'd along like a wounded knight. Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always loved the people. Nay, that's past praying for, I haue pepper'dtwo of them: Two I am sure I haue payed, two Roguesin Buckrom Sutes. --Hail, brave friend!Say to the king the knowledge of the broilAs thou didst leave it. Yet to bite his lipAnd hum at good Cominius much unhearts me. No blown ambition doth our arms incite, But love, dear love, and our ag'd father's right. To-morrow morning come you to my house, And since you could not be my son-in-law, Be yet my nephew. Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while? Beat. O, good! Convey! Conveyers are you all, That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall. I neuer thought to heare you speake againe King. Thou shalt think Though he divide the realm and give thee half It is too little, helping him to all; And he shall think that thou, which knowest the way To plant unrightful kings, wilt know again, Being ne'er so little urg'd, another way To pluck him he And Hymen now with luckier issue speeds Than this for whom we rend'red up this woe. You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty, You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the pow'rful sun, To fall and blast her pride! Reg. O, he's a limb that has but a disease;Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy. Enter Desdemona, Emilia Iago, Roderigo, and Attendants. You are but now cast inhis mood, a punishment more in policy than in malice; even so asone would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion. What are you? Your name, your quality? and why you answer This present summons? Edg. Alas, who knows? OTHELLO. What you will have, I'll give, and willing too; For do we must what force will have us do. Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind; says suum, mun, hey, no, nonny. Whether he was combin'dWith those of Norway, or did line the rebelWith hidden help and vantage, or that with bothHe labour'd in his country's wreck, I know not;But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,Have overthrown him. I cannot bid you bid my daughter live That were impossible; but I pray you both, Possess the people in Messina here How innocent she died; and if your love Can labour aught in sad invention, Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb, And sing it to her bones--s 'But quickly on this side the verdict went: His real habitude gave life and grace To appertainings and to ornament, Accomplished in himself, not in his case, All aids, themselves made fairer by their place, Came for additions; yet their purposed trim Pi Ladies, you deserveTo have a temple built you: all the swordsIn Italy, and her confederate arms,Could not have made this peace. --Nay, behold's:This boy, that cannot tell what he would haveBut kneels and holds up hands for fellowship,Does reason our petition with more strengthThan thou hast to deny't. I should be wise; for honesty's a fool, And loses that it works for. First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I askthee what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why they arecommitted; and to conclude, what you lay to their charge. O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect Who they should be that have thus mangled you? CASSIO. If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay handson him? Dog. I will not long be troubled with you; you shallhave some part of your will. So sighs, and tears, and groans, Show minutes, times, and hours; but my time Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy, While I stand fooling here, his Jack of the clock. Not for my life; but yet I dare defend My innocent life against an emperor. What art thou? and how comest thou hither, Where no man never comes but that sad dog That brings me food to make misfortune live? GROOM. But if you do refuse to marry me, You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd? PHEBE. I pra' ye, sincemy Exion is enter'd, and my Case so openly known to theworld, let him be brought in to his answer: A 100. Royal Lear, Give but that portion which yourself propos'd, And here I take Cordelia by the hand, Duchess of Burgundy. And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut? TOUCHSTONE. What's the matter? Keepe the Peace here, hoa Host. No, not to be so odd, and from all fashions, As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable. "This fail you not to do, as you will-" LODOVICO. I would you had but the wit: 'twere betterthen your Dukedome. While I go to the goldsmith's house, gothou And buy a rope's end; that will I bestow Among my wife and her confederates, For locking me out of my doors by day. I will send for him, and question him yourself. Octavius, I have seen more days than you, And though we lay these honors on this man To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads, He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold, To groan and sweat under the business, Either led or driven, as we point the What would your Maiestie? how fares yourGrace? King. Come, some music! [Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. You could, for a need, study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and insert in?? could you not? I Play. Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of silksbetray thy poor heart to woman. [Edmund is borne off. Well, that Rascall hath good mettall in him,hee will not runne Prin. But not a minute, King, that thou canst give: Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow; Thou can'st help time to furrow me with age, But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage; Thy word is current with him Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness. Know, Claudio, to thy head, Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me That I am forc'd to lay my reverence by And, with grey hairs and bruise of many days, Do challenge thee to trial of a man. Hold your hands, Both you of my inclining and the rest. What should be spoken here, where our fate,Hid in an auger hole, may rush, and seize us?Let's away;Our tears are not yet brew'd. O, he is as tediousAs a tyred Horse, a rayling Wife,Worse then a smoakie House. First,I must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him. Caius Ligarius, Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy As that same ague which hath made you lean. Made you no more offence but what you speak of? Kent. [Enter Knight] How now? Where's that mongrel? Knight. Be rul'd by me: depart in patience, And let us to the Tiger all to dinner; And, about evening, come yourself alone To know the reason of this strange restraint. I am a gentleman of blood and breeding, And from some knowledge and assurance offer This office to you. Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky, That dost not bite so nigh As benefits forgot; Though thou the waters warp, Thy sting is not so sharp As friend rememb'red not. So your sweet Majesty, Looking awry upon your lord's departure, Find shapes of grief more than himself to wail; Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows Of what it is not. The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit, hath sent me to you. Before AngiersEnter, on one side, AUSTRIA and forces; on the other, KING PHILIPOF FRANCE,LEWIS the Dauphin, CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and forces KING PHILIP. No eye hath seene such skar-Crowes: Ilenot march through Couentry with them, that's flat. As thou art to thyself: Such was the very armour he had on When he the ambitious Norway combated; So frown? he once when, in an angry parle, He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice. There is not now a Rebels Sword vnsheath'd,But Peace puts forth her Oliue euery where:The manner how this Action hath beene borne,Here (at more leysure) may your Highnesse reade,With euery course, in his particular King. Brutus shall lead, and we will grace his heels With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome. Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answerAs traitors do. 'Tis worse than murther To do upon respect such violent outrage. Nay, we must think men are not gods, Nor of them look for such observancy As fits the bridal. No, they cannot touch me for coming; I am the King himself. I think I can discover him, if you please To get good guard and go along with me. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed. ' The heathen philosopher, when he had a desire to eata grape, would open his lips when he put it into his mouth;meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and lips to open. O, God help me! God help me! How long have you profess'd apprehension? Marg. Mad world! mad kings! mad composition! John, to stop Arthur's tide in the whole, Hath willingly departed with a part; And France, whose armour conscience buckled on, Whom zeal and charity brought to the field As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear Wit Draw thy sword, That, if my speech offend a noble heart, Thy arm may do thee justice. His face thou hast, for even so look'd he, Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours; But when he frown'd, it was against the French And not against his friends. She says I am not fair, that I lack manners; She calls me proud, and that she could not love me, Were man as rare as Phoenix. Thy comforts can do me no good at all; Thee they may hurt. Vexed I am Of late with passions of some difference, Conceptions only proper to myself, Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors; But let not therefore my good friends be grieved Among which number, Cassius, be you one Nor construe any further my ne O! O! O! Falls on thebed. [To BOLINGBROKE] Six frozen winters spent, Return with welcome home from banishment. I'll give my jewels for a set of beads, My gorgeous palace for a hermitage, My gay apparel for an almsman's gown, My figur'd goblets for a dish of wood, My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff, My subjects for a pair of carved saints, And my large kingd And what's he then that says I play the villain? When this advice is free I give and honest, Probal to thinking, and indeed the course To win the Moor again? For 'tis most easy The inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit. Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? Thetransgression is in the stealer. O, if I could, what grief should I forget! Preach some philosophy to make me mad, And thou shalt be canoniz'd, Cardinal; For, being not mad, but sensible of grief, My reasonable part produces reason How I may be deliver'd of these woes, And teaches me t Now binde my Browes with Iron and approachThe ragged'st houre, that Time and Spight dare bringTo frowne vpon th' enrag'd Northumberland. Why, if thou never wast at court thou never saw'stgood manners; if thou never saw'st good manners, then thy mannersmust be wicked; and wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. [Enter a company of mutinous citizens, with staves, clubs, andother weapons. Light, I say, light! Exitabove. I have already delivered him letters, and there appearsmuch joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itselfmodest enough without a badge of bitterness. Thy state of law is bondslave to the law; And thou KING RICHARD. But my Muse labors, And thus she is deliver'd. Thus answer I in name of Benedick But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio. God save King Henry, unking'd Richard says, And send him many years of sunshine days! What more remains? NORTHUMBERLAND. To arms let's hie! ExeuntseverallySCENE 2. For my life, to break with him about Beatrice! Claud. These Lyes are like the Father that begets them,grosse as a Mountaine, open, palpable. Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me! For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world. Some two months hence up higher toward the north He first presents his fire, and the high east Stands as the Capitol, directly here. He hath a heart as sound as a bell; and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heartthinks, his tongue speaks. Being entertain'd for a perfumer, as I was smoking amusty room, comes me the Prince and Claudio, hand in hand in sad conference. Looke, if the wither'd Elder hath not his Pollclaw'd like a Parrot Poin. I have very poor and unhappybrains for drinking. What Ostler? A plague on thee, hast thou neuer an eye inthy head? Can'st not heare? And t'were not as good adeed as drinke, to break the pate of thee, I am a very Villaine. I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page, And therefore look you call me Ganymede. Th?ambassadors from Norway, my good lord, Are joyfully return?. O, he sits high in all the people's hearts, And that which would appear offense in us, His countenance, like richest alchemy, Will change to virtue and to worthiness. Is there not my Father, my Vncle, and my Selfe, LordEdmund Mortimer, my Lord of Yorke, and Owen Glendour?Is there not besides, the Dowglas? Haue I not all their letters,to meete me in Armes by the ninth of the next Moneth?and are they not some of them seNew honors come upon him,Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mouldBut with the aid of use. Let vs be Dianaes Forresters,Gentlemen of the Shade, Minions of the Moone;and let men say, we be men of good Gouernment, beinggouerned as the Sea, by our noble and chast mistris theMoone, vnder whose countenance we steale Prin. My Lord Chiefe Iustice, speake to that vaineman Ch. [Enter priests, &c, in procession; the corpse of Ophelia, Laertes, and Mourners following; King, Queen, their Trains, &c. Tell me but this; Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand? OTHELLO. She took them, read them in my presence, And now and then an ample tear trill'd down Her delicate cheek. 'Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!' That's something yet! Edgar I nothing am. Do't! he will do't; for look you, sir, he has as many friends asenemies; which friends, sir, as it were, durst not, look you,sir, show themselves, as we term it, his friends, whilst he's indejectitude. A flatterer's would not, though they do appear As huge as high Olympus. And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus; Were I a common laugher, or did use To stale with ordinary oaths my love To every new protester, if you know That I do fawn on men and hug them hard And after scandal them, or if you know That I profess myself in But, howsoever thou pursu?t this act, Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven, And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,43 To prick and sting her. A lioness hath whelped in the streets; And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead; Fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds, In ranks and squadrons and right form of war, Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol; The noise of battle hurtled in th Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not To please the palate of my appetite, Nor to comply with heatthe young affects In me defunctand proper satisfaction; But to be free and bounteous to her mind. Sir, we have allGreat cause to give great thanks. Of folded schedules had she many a one, Which she perused, sighed, tore, and gave the flood; Cracked many a ring of posied gold and bone, Bidding them find their sepulchres in mud; Found yet moe letters sadly penned in blood, With sleided silk feat and  A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours. Thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to aman. 'Tis not to make me jealous To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company, Is free of speech, sings, plays, and dances well; Where virtue is, these are more virtuous. This royal hand and mine are newly knit, And the conjunction of our inward souls Married in league, coupled and link'd together With all religious strength of sacred vows; The latest breath that gave the sound of words Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity Rebellion in this Land shall lose his way,Meeting the Checke of such another day:And since this Businesse so faire is done,Let vs not leaue till all our owne be wonne. Bring us to this sight, and you shall say I'll prove a busy actor in their play. Nay, when I have a suit Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed, It shall be full of poise and difficult weight, And fearful to be granted. I look'd hee should hauesent me two and twenty yards of Satten (as I am trueKnight) and he sends me Security. Where I could not be honest, I never yet was valiant. For from his Mettle, was his Party steel'd;Which once, in him abated, all the restTurn'd on themselues, like dull and heauy Lead:And as the Thing, that's heauy in it selfe,Vpon enforcement, flyes with greatest speede,So did our Men, heauy in Hotspurres lWe have; whereupon the Earl of Worcester Hath broken his staff, resign'd his stewardship, And all the household servants fled with him To Bolingbroke. Reuolted Mortimer?He neuer did fall off, my Soueraigne Liege,But by the chance of Warre: to proue that true,Needs no more but one tongue. And a good soldier to a lady; but what is he to a lord? Mess. Death, in guerdon of her wrongs, Gives her fame which never dies. 'A shall not tread on me;I'll run away till I am bigger; but then I'll fight. From a God, to a Bull? A heauie declension: Itwas Ioues case. Where shal I findeone that can steale well? O, for a fine theefe of two andtwentie, or thereabout: I am heynously vnprouided. Is? not possible to understand in another tongue? You will do?, sir, really. Have you not been acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conn'd them out ofrings? ORLANDO. Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can Hold out this tempest. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard; Delay it not; I?l have him hence to-night: Away! for everything is seal? and done That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste. Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones! [Dies] Enter PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and BIGOT SALISBURY. But I haue sent for him to answer this:And for this cause a-while we must neglectOur holy purpose to Ierusalem. Within this hour at most,I will advise you where to plant yourselves;Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,The moment on't; for't must be done to-nightAnd something from the palace; always thoughtThat I require a clearness; and with him,--To lea These weeds are memories of those worser hours. If he were dead, you'ld weep for him: if you would not, itwere a good sign that I should quickly have a new father. Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts; And when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now, Guide thou the sword. Most reverend signior, do you know my voice? BRABANTIO. My good Lord: giue your Lordship good time ofthe day. Go seek the traitor Gloucester, Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us. He does confess he feels himself distracted, But from what cause he will by no means speak. The hope and expectation of thy timeIs ruin'd, and the Soule of euery manProphetically doe fore-thinke thy fall. Who would be jealous then of such a one? No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone. <Exeunt ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE and DROMIO OF SYRACUSE to theprioryEnter the LADY ABBESSABBESS. Amen, Amen! Mount, chevaliers; to arms! BASTARD. Farewell, my Desdemona; I'll come to thee straight. Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain If with too credent ear you list his songs, Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open To his unmaster? importunity. He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee,And tread upon his neck. Why yet doth deny his Prisoners,But with Prouiso and Exception,That we at our owne charge, shall ransome straightHis Brother-in-Law, the foolish Mortimer,Who (in my soule) hath wilfully betraidThe liues of those, that he did leade to Fight,Against the g Trebonius knows his time, for, look you, Brutus, He draws Mark Antony out of the way. My love doth so approve him, That even his stubbornness, his checks, his frowns Prithee, unpin mehave grace and favor in them. But I shall crave your pardon;That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose;Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell:Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,Yet grace must still look so. Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die; The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye. To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more prideThan pity to our prayers. You have been hotly call'd for, When, being not at your lodging to be found, The Senate hath sent about three several quests To search you out. O rare, he doth it as like one of these harlotryPlayers, as euer I see Falst. And yet I fear you, for you are fatal then When your eyes roll so. This course I fittest choose, For forty ducats is too much to lose. He cannot temp'rately transport his honoursFrom where he should begin and end; but willLose those he hath won. O, she will sing thesavageness out of a bear. And, for an earnest of a greater honor,He bade me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor:In which addition, hail, most worthy thane,For it is thine. I must giue ouerthis life, and I will giue it ouer: and I do not, I am aVillaine. To make the weeper laugh, the laugher weep, He had the dialect and different skill, Catching all passions in his craft of will, 'That he did in the general bosom reign Of young, of old, and sexes both enchanted, To dwell with him in thoughts, or to rema If Edgar live, O, bless him! Now, fellow, fare thee well. Tut, tut! Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle. Something sure of state, Either from Venice or some unhatch'd practice Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him, Hath puddled his clear spirit; and in such cases Men's natures wrangle with inferior things, Though great ones are their object. This villain of mine comes under the prediction; there's son against father: the King falls frombias of nature; there's father against child. See, see, our honour'd hostess!--The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,Which still we thank as love. But thou must needs be sure My spirit and my place have in them power To make this bitter to thee. The country gives me proof and precedent Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices, Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary; And with this horrible object, from low farms, Poor pelting villages, sh I love Benedick well, and I could wish hewould modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy sogood a lady. Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water; The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain My waters-on the earth, and not on him. Began to giue me ground: but I followed meclose, came in foot and hand; and with a thought, seuen ofthe eleuen I pay'd Prin. [Within] Have at you with another: that's-when? can youtell?DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Giue my Horse youRogues: giue me my Horse, and be hang'd Prin. What, will you make aYounker of me? Shall I not take mine ease in mine Inne,but I shall haue my Pocket pick'd? I haue lost a Seale-Ringof my Grand-fathers, worth fortie marke Hostesse. This must my comfort be That sun that warms you here shall shine on me, And those his golden beams to you here lent Shall point on me and gild my banishment. Nay, Ile haue a Starling shall be taught to speakeNothing but Mortimer, and giue it him,To keepe his anger still in motion Wor. If thou art she, tell me where is that son That floated with thee on the fatal raft?ABBESS. [Reads] 'Art thou god to shepherd turn'd, That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?' Can a woman rail thus? SILVIUS. O my sweet Beefe:I must still be good Angell to thee. What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not thetruth, the truth? Prin. Enter Hostesse, with two Officers, Fang, and Snare. The skipping King hee ambled vp and downe,With shallow Iesters, and rash Bauin Wits,Soone kindled, and soone burnt, carded his state,Mingled his Royaltie with Carping Fooles,Had his great Name prophaned with their Scornes,And gaue his Countenance, agains--Pr'ythee, Virgilia, turn thy solemness out o'door and go along with us. The lamentable change is from the best; The worst returns to laughter. I haue got, in exchange of a hundred and fiftieSouldiers, three hundred and odde Pounds. Pr'ythee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius, alwaysfactionary on the party of your general. He hath commanded me to go to bed, And bade me to dismiss you. Plains near AngiersAlarums, excursions, retreat. I am transformed, master, am not I?ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the man, I think,that shall set them in present action. Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail Of you, my sons; and till this present hour My heavy burden ne'er delivered. I remember, one said there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might indite the author of affectation; but called it an honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. A lunatic lean-witted fool, Presuming on an ague's privilege, Darest with thy frozen admonition Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood With fury from his native residence. To the Capitol,Come: we will be there before the stream o' the people;And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own, Which we have goaded onward. Let them set on at once, for I perceive But cold demeanor in Octavia's wing, And sudden push gives them the overthrow. Come, come, no more of this vnprofitableChat Glend. Under the greenwood tree Who loves to lie with me, And turn his merry note Unto the sweet bird's throat, Come hither, come hither, come hither. Is it possible that any villany should be so dear? Bora. And will you, being a man of your breeding, be married under a bush, like a beggar? Get you to church and have agood priest that can tell you what marriage is; this fellow willbut join you together as they join wainscot; then one of you will prove a shr If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you know. Now these her princes are come home again, Come the three corners of the world in arms, And we shall shock them. Softwho are you? Sir Walter Blunt, there's Honour for you:here's no vanity, I am as hot as molten Lead, and as heauytoo; heauen keepe Lead out of mee, I neede no moreweight then mine owne Bowelles. O, you are well tuned now! But I'll set down the pegs that make this music, As honest as I am. A plague of all Cowards: let them speake; if they speakemore or lesse then truth, they are villaines, and the sonnesof darknesse Prince. I will persever in my course ofloyalty, though the conflict be sore between that and my blood. Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasma or a hideous dream; The genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council, and the state of man, Like to a little kingdom, suffers then The nature of an Set on toward Swinstead; to my litter straight; Weakness possesseth me, and I am faint. O, for a chair, To bear him easily hence! BIANCA. [To Goneril] Life and death! I am asham'd That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus; That these hot tears, which break from me perforce, Should make thee worth them. This is some fellow Who, having been prais'd for bluntness, doth affect A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb Quite from his nature. But wherefore do you droop? Why look you sad? Be great in act, as you have been in thought; Let not the world see fear and sad distrust Govern the motion of a kingly eye. But, mother, I am not Sir Robert's son: I have disclaim'd Sir Robert and my land; Legitimation, name, and all is gone. He comes down from the pulpit. Who is't can blame him?Your enemies and his find something in him. Winter garments must be lin'd, So must slender Rosalinde. ' And so, ere answer knows what question would, Saving in dialogue of compliment, And talking of the Alps and Apennines, The Pyrenean and the river Po It draws toward supper in conclusion so. Hownow my sweet Creature of Bombast, how long is't agoe,Iacke, since thou saw'st thine owne Knee? Falst. Why, look you there! look how it steals away! My father, in his habit as he liv?! Look, where he goes, even now out at the portal! [Exit Ghost. His Grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it! Beat. For Gloucester's death I slew him not, but to my own disgrace Neglected my sworn duty in that case. I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke. But seven years since, in Syracuse, boy, Thou know'st we parted; but perhaps, my son, Thou sham'st to acknowledge me in misery. Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his; As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is. It is certaine, that either wise bearing, or ignorantCarriage is caught, as men take diseases, one ofanother: therefore, let men take heede of their Companie. And thus I cur'd him; and this way will Itake upon me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's heart, that there shall not be one spot of love in 't. Bardolfe, and to all the Cauileroes about London Dau. That hee is olde(the more the pittie) his white hayres doe witnesse it:but that hee is (sauing your reuerence) a Whore-master,that I vtterly deny. His own impatienceTakes from Aufidius a great part of blame. Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE Look, here comes a lover of mine, and a lover of hers. Let that appear hereafter,and aim better at me by that I now will manifest. All offices are open,and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour offive till the bell have told eleven. His temper therefore must be well obseru'd:Chide him for faults, and doe it reuerently,When you perceiue his blood enclin'd to mirth:But being moodie, giue him Line, and scope,Till that his passions (like a Whale on ground)Confound themselues with workinNor tripp'd neither, you base football player? [Trips up his heels. O, this will make my mother die with grief! KING JOHN. 